Question: in football whats the point of wasting the first two plays with a rush - up the middle - not regular rush plays i get those
Answer: Keep the defense honest, get a feel for the pass rush, open up the passing game. An offense that's too one dimensional will fail. And those rushes up the middle can be busted wide open sometimes for big yardage.

Question: Why are different tiers (regular < mid < premium) of gas' prices almost always 10 cents different?
Answer: As someone who uses quality Premium, I wish this was true.

Question: Stars and Visibility
Answer: It's a quirk of the human eye. At the center of the eye (the fovea) we mostly have colour-sensitive cone cells to see detail and colour of what we're focusing on. Around the fovea we mostly have rod cells that can't see colour but are more sensitive to variations in light intensity and movement.  
Looking slightly to the side of the thing you're examining sends more of the light to the rod cells and lets you see things more clearly in low-light conditions where cones don't work well.

Question: How do we know all the money the government is getting from bank settlements is going back to the people?
Answer: I'm pretty confident most of it isn't going back to the people.  That's how politics works.

Question: What are good and bad sides of manual and automatic drive gear?
Answer: Automatics weigh more, so that alone makes gas mileage worse.  They are also more complicated, so that means reliability is going to be lower.  It is easier to operate, which may free up your attention for focus on what is *outside* the car.

Some people derive satisfaction from shifting, and flexibility in using the power curve.

Question: the special and general theory of relativity
Answer: We know that light moves at the speed *c* (roughly 300000km/s).

So here's a question for you (that Einstein asked himself): what would you see if you sat on a beam of light and looked into the mirror? Would your reflection disappear? Would it be normal?

He then thought: what's the speed of light relative to anyway?

Here's the thing: if I run 10m/s, and I'm on a train going at 100m/s, then when I run along the train I'm running 10m/s relative to the train, and 110m/s relative to the tracks. So what is the speed of light relative to?

In his earlier career he did some experiments [EDIT: He didn't: it was Michelson and Morley, but Einstein knew about the results, and everything. Thanks /u/AramisAthosPorthos for pointing that out.]: can you tell which way the Earth is moving by looking at light inside a sealed box? If the speed of light is measured compared to something in the universe (which they called a luminiferous aether, IIRC) then you should be able to measure it, by seeing that the light hits one side of the box earlier, because the box is moving.

But there was no change, so Einstein realised that the speed of light isn't relative to anything. No matter what speed you're going at, you must always get the same speed of light.

This led to the special theory of relativity. He basically said "what if time is variable and the speed of light is constant?" and did all the maths to figure out what would happen. It's called "special relativity" because it only works in a special case: there is no mass (which causes forces) in it.

General relativity involved a lot more complicated maths to take into account the affects of gravity, which he modelled as a warping of space-time, and took some really, really hard maths to figure out. It's called general relativity because it can be applied to generally any situation. (Actually, it breaks down at quantum-mechanics levels, but that's a different story.)

I think that covers the difference and where they came from. If you want any more details on them, feel free to ask and I'll see what I can get for you.

Question: How do muscles grow?
Answer: I hope this answer qualifies as technical, yet simple enough (as I very rarely post here), but the basic idea that I understand is that your muscles rip and tear on a microscopic level when you are working out, and the harder you push those muscles, the more they rip. Hence where the idea comes from that more reps and less weight equal more tone, but more weight and less reps equal more muscle growth.

What happens is that following those tiny rips and tears, your muscle heals over itself and essentially stacks on top of itself, healing bigger and stronger than before. The more those muscles are used, kept active and challenged, the more they will continue to build and grow over time.

Other factors go into the growth of muscle as well, such as your nutrition. Protein, fats, etc. also play a factor, as they cause your body to "feed" your body and muscles in different ways of varying effectiveness - but I think that's an ELI5 for another day.

Question: What is the role of actual real-life actors in making animated characters? Like Liam Neeson playing Aslan in Narnia?
Answer: Could you elaborate your question?

They are voice actors. They sit in a studio and record their lines. The animators then animate the characters to match the recordings.

There are some cases (for example Andy Serkis as Gollum in the Lord of the Rings film series) where the voice actors also provides the motions of the character using motion capture technology.

Question: Why does the water from my kitchen faucet taste different than the water from my bathroom faucet? Doesn't it come from the same place?
Answer: Yes, but the pipes going to one place could have a build up that's changing the taste or the composition of the pipes can be different, i.e. pvc pipes going to your kitchen, but copper pipes to your bathroom.

Question: Precipitation reactions
Answer: Why the hell would you need to learn about precipitation rxns in second grade??? I was taught that in the seventh grade IIRC... Please tell me 2nd was a typo???

The principles are pretty advanced for second graders... 

Have you talked about elements and compounds, solutions, solubility?

You need to be able to talk about solubility before you can actually talk about precipitation reactions, since that is the basic principle. 

I am not sure that is something that can be taught to 2nd graders.... 

I just asked my mom who teaches 7th grade science... Her students have a hard time learning this in 7th grade, she laughed when I told her about your question. Good luck

Question: If dark colours absorb more heat, why does light skin burn easier than dark skin?
Answer: Two things going on here.  First, heat doesn't have anything to do with sunburn, it's all about UV rays.  Encountering more UV rays = more sunburn.

However, dark skin absorbs more UV rays than pale skin.  And in fact that's exactly why it burns less.  The pigmented layer absorbs more UV in the upper layers of the skin, shading the cells underneath from UV and preventing burns (because it's the lower, reproducing cells that matter, the upper ones are disposable protection).  Just like sitting outside under an opaque black umbrella would shade you more than sitting outside under a translucent white one.

Question: How the fuck does Facebook know about people I know?!
Answer: Your email contacts, your academic/work institutions info you've put, and the friends of your friends.

Question: Why is chickenpox worse as an adult?
Answer: It's mostly due to the difference in immune system between a child and an adult. A primary varicella zoster infection (chickenpox) in adulthood is indeed associated with increased risk of complications. Most of these complications are due to the intense response by the adult immune system that comes into contact with the virus for the first time. Children have less active immune systems, but usually active enough to clear the virus - making them immune to it thereafter, and are therefore less likely to develop complications with this particular infection. The same goes to hepatitis A: adults develop jaundice, while children are asymptomatic. 

Note: a secondary varicella zoster infection during adulthood is called "shingles" and is generally less dangerous than a primary varicella during adulthood, due to the immunity that is already present at the time of the second infection.

Question: How do movies not get uploaded online in HD from movie theater employees before their DVD release?
Answer: The theater will be fined a massive amount of money for allowing a leak, the person leaking it will be fined a massive amount of money for uploading it, and they automatically lose their job. This is a combination of copyright law violation and contracts that you sign when taking the job. So the risk are so extremely high that most will not risk it. 

They also have security features such as login codes to open, proprietary file types that need special programs to play, and the rooms operating the projector system requiring special key access at times.

Question: Can defense attorneys 'throw' a case if they know their clients are guilty?
Answer: Yes, they could 'throw' a case.

However, that's a serious ethics violation which would almost certainly cause disbarment if found out, and not only that, the conviction could then be appealed based on ineffective assistance of counsel (embodied in the 6th amendment).

If it makes it easier to wrap your head around, think of defense lawyers defending the integrity of the judicial system, not just their client.  The idea being, the system must obey all of its own rules in proving that someone is guilty, or else it's a dishonest system and could easily "prove" that an innocent person is guilty next time.  Defense lawyers are there to help ensure the system stays honest.

Question: why, when intoxicated, does it feel like everything is spinning when you close your eyes but stops spinning when you open them?
Answer: the fluid in your inner ear keeps you orientated and standing upwards, although when your drunk certain functions in your brain don't work as well or as they are meant to. So if you've had a bit too much to drink, your brain might not be able to tell which way is up and which way is down if your inner ears are miscommunicating with your brain. So that's why when you close your eyes it feels like you're falling off the face of the world.

Question: Why are some fish bones edible, and others are not?
Answer: They are small and soft so it does not matter if you swallow them, bigger and harder bones might get stuck in your throat and couse pain

Question: What's the meaning of the phrase "I've got a bone to pick with you."
Answer: If you have a bone to pick with someone, it means they've annoyed or insulted you and you need to talk to them about it.

According to the Oxford English Dictionary (via a thread in /r/etymology) "a bone to pick" originally meant something that occupies or distracts you (as a dog is occupied by picking at a bone) and somehow morphed into its modern meaning.

Question: What is different in the brain chemistry that distinguishes thinking about moving my arm and actually moving it?
Answer: Thought and motor cortex are separate. So you can think without acting.

Question: Why can't we just taste candy or Sweets and then spit it out to avoid its unhealthy attributes? What makes us swallow it to get satisfaction?
Answer: You absolutely could. 

But the fact is that evolution shaped our tastes. That's why fatty foods and sweet foods are so appealing to out taste buds. It is our bodies way of saying "That has lots of calories and will help us avoid starving."

The 'satisfaction' you feel on swallowing it is simply the body saying  "Good job. Remember that tastes good so we will eat it again if we find it again." Rewarding you for fueling it. 

You can see why this system that evolved when we were hunter gatherers to keep us from starving and helping us learn whats best to eat leads to obesity now that we have food options everywhere anytime we want. 

Fun fact: Most people mistake the bodies thirst craving for being hungry. More often than not if you drink a glass of water when you feel the urge to snack it will go away. Thus helping you lose weight by reducing total calorie intake.

Question: Why are the things that taste the best bad for us?
Answer: Let's think about this from an evolutionary perspective. Way back in the day, (like way way way back) humans struggled for food just like every other animal. It was to our species evolutionary advantage to pursue food that would keep us full longer, or provide more energy than other food options. Fats, are 9 calories per gram compared to proteins and carbs that are 4 calories. Humans that preferred fats and craved them, had a higher chance of survival and passing on the fat craving trait. Fast forward to present day where food is plentiful. We are still programmed to eat high calorie foods just in case we won't find food for a week!

Question: Why do you see weird colors when you press your eyes?
Answer: If I had to take a guess, no expert, just had anatomy and physiology through college, I'd imagine it'd have something to do with the rods and cones in your eyes and the optic nerve. When you push on your eyes, you probably disrupt the innervation action of the rods and cones and it's just trying to adjust back. Just my guess!

Question: If a movie production has $5,000,000 (estimated) Budget, must some of that money go to the actors? or only movie's production quality?
Answer: It has to include equipment, pay for employees (all cast, crew, and extras), fees, *food* on larger productions, constryucting sets, making costume,s all of the makeup artists, set design, sound guy, camera guy, lighting guy, dozens of other specific jobs, and yes, the actors.

Question: What classifies an island as an island? Aren't all continents etc essentially large islands?
Answer: While not universally true (especially in the case of Europe who gets to be called its own continent for purely cultural/political reasons) A continent is considered to be the primary landmass on its tectonic plate.

If you look at a map of tectonic plates: _URL_0_

You can clearly see that with a few notable exceptions such as Europe and India. In general continents occupy their own tectonic plate. 

So then if you are a landmass that is part of a continent's tectonic plate but is not connected by land to that continent, than you would be an island. Although even this is a fairly tenuous definition.

Question: why does wikipedia ask for donations almost every month? do they really need it to not disappear?
Answer: Wikipedia's biggest issue is that their amazing service requires constant overhead. So donations keep it running. Have you ever been inside a server location. That shit is cold, and cold is expensive.

Question: How does a water purifier jug work and could you put 3rd world ditch water through one and drink safely?
Answer: The passive type of jug won't filter out bacteria and other things that can make you sick. There is a thing called [LifeStraw](_URL_0_) that can do this, but it forces water through a filter as you use it. Something like a reverse osmosis system can make water safe, but that also involves forcing water through a membrane. These things can't be done with just gravity.

Question: Why people like getting drunk/sloshed/hammered/shit-faced ?
Answer: Because only when you're passed out in a puddle of your own vomit can you silence the ennui and existential hum.


    Source: I'm Irish.

Question: What happens when a "too-big-to-fail" bank goes bankrupt.
Answer: > These assets wouldn't simply evaporate into the air

That's exactly what they'd do. That's what it means for a bank to fail—it means that they simply do not have the assets to cover all their liabilities. You can have a million dollars in your account according to a ledger book or a computer screen. But if the bank doesn't have that money, they just don't have that money. 

Say you deposit your money in Bank X. Bank X loans that money out to people who want to buy Beanie Babies. It's 1998, and Bank X knows that Beanie Babies are worth a lot of money. So even though they've given out a lot of money, they get to take the Beanie Babies back if the people don't make their monthly payments. So whether it's cash or Beanie Babies, the bank is gonna get something that's worth a lot of money. 

But wait. It's 2000 now. Nobody gives a shit about Beanie Babies anymore. Everyone wakes up and realizes they were way, way overpriced. Now they're worthless. And so are those loans Bank X gave out. The people who bought the Beanie Babies aren't going to keep paying every month for something they don't give a shit about. And the bank is more than welcome to take those Beanie Babies back, but what's that even going to get them? They're not worth anything. 
 
So, now you go into Bank X to try to withdraw your money. But the problem is they already gave all that money to the people who wanted to buy Beanie Babies. They were hoping to make back that money and then some. But as we just discussed, that didn't happen. So now the money is just gone. Maybe the government will step in and try to save you because it was "unfair." But that's another matter. The money is just gone, and if you want it back, you're gonna have to get it from somewhere else.

Question: Why is the recent Apple vs. FBI encryption debate relevant years after the Snowden leaks (2013), passage of the PATRIOT Act (2001), and the ECHELON revelations (1988)?
Answer: The Apple debate has nothing to do with the government's right to get the information. They had a warrant from a judge, who has way more certainty than probable cause to believe that the phone was used by someone who committed a crime. They also had permission from the owner of the phone (the guy's employer) to access it.

It's about as clear as it can be that the government has a right to that phone. What's also clear is that if Apple had a way to get into the phone, they would have to provide that to the FBI. Since Apple didn't have a way to get in, they didn't have anything to give to the FBI. They also did not want to make a tool to bypass their own security measures (reasonably in my opinion, since there's no way to restrict the use of that tool to law enforcement officials with a warrant). The FBI wanted to force them to make such a thing. And whether or not the FBI could force that was being debated.

The most relevant law concerning this- the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA) says that the FBI can't force Apple to do this. So the FBI tried to interpret a very old law, passed by the first Congress, as "we can force anyone to do anything as long as we get a judge to sign off on it". Apple, along with every other company in the country, was rather frightened of the idea that judges could make any one do any thing with just a signature and without a hearing. So they refused to comply.

Question: Why has the Mars Rover Opportunity's Lithium Ion Battery Lasted 11+ Years and the one in My Cell Phone/Laptop/Tablet Dies in Less Than 2?
Answer: NASA requirements lean toward the 'overengineered' side (for good reason - if something goes wrong you can't replace it).  The battery in your phone is more from the "make it cheaper, they can always buy another battery" school of engineering.

(Just to clarify, I am not being cynical about phone/laptop batteries. Most people - me included - would rather not pay something like 100 times as much for a battery that is able to withstand operating on Mars and lasts several times longer.)

Question: Why some bugs fly to lights.
Answer: Navigating at night is hard. You can't really see anything, especially not distant landmarks.

Once upon a time, the most reliable "landmark" was the moon. Sure, the moon moves in the sky throughout the night, but if you just wanted to forage by covering a large area, following the moon (without moving higher up the atmosphere) is a good rule of thumb.

But now we have artificial lights. Insects think they are the moon, and fly towards them.

Question: Why is sales tax in the US excluded from the list price?
Answer: Because every state has a different tax rate on goods, so that would make putting tax into the price a little difficult

Question: Why does a beer on tap almost always taste better than it does from a bottle?
Answer: Probably because the keg has been better handled than the cases of beer have, and because bottles are not actually the best packages for beer. Light passes through the glass and can cause skunking, and oxygen can sneak in through the plastic seal in the crown, causing staling. Kegs are generally stored cold, and of course are completely opaque and are much more resistant to oxygen ingress.

Question: What is the significance of Jamaican Bobsled team qualifies for the Olympics?
Answer: Let me tell you about a man...a great man...a man who helped the underdogs...a man who traveled by many forms...a man who loved his nieces and nephew.  A man who left this world too early. 

That mans name was John Candy.

Question: Is it possible to build up an immunity to poisons both naturally occurring and man-made?
Answer: Sort of. It's called [Mithridatism](_URL_0_), after a Roman-era king of Pontus (northern modern Turkey). But you can only do it with certain poisons; others just build up in your body until they kill you.

Question: How do devices know the amount of charge left in a battery?
Answer: I think the best way to explain this is through an analogy. Imagine you have two tanks of water. One has a lot of water and the other is empty. If you were to connect a pipe running from the bottom of one tank to the bottom of the other, water would flow through the pipe until both tanks have the same level of water. If you were to put a water wheel in the path of the water flowing through the pipe, you could use the flow of the water to do work.

Batteries work the same way. They create a "potential difference" between the terminals. This is a fancy way of saying one terminal has a lot more electrons than the other, just like the tank with more water. If you were to connect the terminals with a "pipe" (or in this case a wire) that would allow electrons to flow to the terminal with little electrons, they would. We can also use that flow of electrons to do work for us as they go from one terminal to another, such as power a screen.

We can estimate how much energy is left in a battery the same way we can estimate how much more water is left in the full tank. As the amount of water-difference between the tanks decreases, so will the speed at which the water flows through the pipe and consequently the speed at which the water wheel spins. Similarly, as the amount of potential-difference between the terminals of a battery decreases, so does the current of electrons and consequently, the amount of work that current can do. Devices can measure that decrease in work and use that to estimate the amount of potential difference left in the battery

Question: Why are my muscles sore after jumping in cold water?
Answer: From what I understand, our bodies defenses against hypothermia is to shiver. This involves involuntary muscle contractions to generate heat. These muscles contractions still can cause muscle soreness just like working out.

Question: why do we like watching the same TV show or movie over and over again?
Answer: Our brains like familiar things. Something we already have seen is easier to get into than something brand new because it requires less attention and effort from our brain. It's also sometimes good watching a TV show knowing the ending (eg Black Mirror, Lost) as we can pick up on foreshadowing or minor details.

Question: why do the French have an abstain vote instead of people physically restraining from voting. [Other]
Answer: It's like a protest vote.  I live in Nevada where we are allowed to vote "none of the above."

If "none of the above" wins, the candidate with the most votes still wins.  It doesn't affect anything here.

Question: Why The Beatles broke up?
Answer: It wasn't that they were mad at each other, although if you spend enough time with someone they can start to bother you, right?  But you can still love someone who bothers you, right?  So it wasn't really about that at all...

Remember that toy you used to have when you were three, and how you got bigger and smarter and didn't need it anymore, how it seems like a baby toy now, compared to the toys you have now?

That's what's called "outgrowing."  At some point, you get used to most of the things in life that were once fascinating to you.  But it's not sad when it happens, because you grew, which is good, and you always think happy thoughts about those things later on, right?  Even though you don't need them anymore?

The beatles were four really good musicians that really brought out the best in each other.  They all wanted to make really good music, and they realized that the best music they could possibly make was the music they made together.  But then after a while, they didn't need each other so much anymore.  They had all discovered new things on their own.  Just like when you discover a new toy, you don't always NEED the old ones anymore.  Even if you remember them as being the best toys ever, you wouldn't really want to play with them too much now, right?  They're still there, you can go back and play with them if you want to, but right now there's new things to learn and explore.  

So just like you and your old toys, each of the beatles discovered new things they wanted to explore.  So they all agreed to spend some time doing that, and then they discovered new things after that, and new things after that.

Question: - Why do phones not require cooling vents but other small appliances do?
Answer: Phones lack a cooling system because there's no room for that. It takes up way too much space for a pocket-size device. If that wasn't an issue, phones would've had vents.

Besides, phones don't work as hard as other computers do. They are weaker, so they produce less heat. Still, they can get hot sometimes, especially during charging, and there is nothing we can do about it.

Phones cool by radiating heat away and through conduction - passing heat into the surrounding air/skin.

Question: Why are oil prices so shockingly low?
Answer: Someone feel free to correct me if I'm wrong, but my understanding is the Middle East put out so much supply to try and put US companies out of business which if successful they would then jack prices up and get money to themselves.

Question: If the inside of my microwave is made of metal, why is it bad to put metallic objects in it?
Answer: The metal interior of the oven is grounded. It does pick up a charge from the microwaves, but the charge is dissipated to ground, and so does not arc. Your fork, or the foil on your plate, are not grounded, and thus the charge can build up until it is strong enough to arc to a grounded panel.

Question: Why do we lack the instincts our ancestors had, e.g. telling you which foods are poisonous
Answer: We still have them. Ever gone "EW" from spoiled food and decided not to eat it? Ever smelled something horrible and realized that it wasn't edible? 

The issue is that we've realized that there's a lot more items out there can that kill us, and notice it. Our ancestors would have just died from eating it, and then warned the surviving descendants to stay away from it.

Question: Why do we wake up early when we don't have to but tend to wake up late when we need to be up?
Answer: The simple answer is stress causes this.

By setting a schedule your body will fall into a rhythm. After a while you don't really need the alarm at all. However as we know our natural rythems get disturbed occasionally. When we must get up we are creating stress that is easiest to avoid by doing nothing and that is what we want to do (avoid stress). On the weekend you don't have stress to avoid and your body is doing its thing.

A sign of depression (just one of the signs) is oversleeping. Your mind allowing your body to avoid the stress of life every chance you get. Feel good that you feel awake when you don't have to. Your life is manageable to you.

Question: Why do tech/software companies stay in the US when they are demanded to include backdoors by the US government? Can't tech companies just develop and release their products overseas, out of reach of the US government's influence?
Answer: The short answer is that it's not just the US government pushing to include "backdoors." Tech companies could move to a country without these laws, but places like the US could restrict or prohibit them from selling their products in the US.

The better option is to follow Apple's example and refuse to build the backdoors.

Question: with such an important vote like appointing a supreme court nomine, why is the senate floor so empty?
Answer: Well, actually, that's not their one job. They also have to meet with people, work on legislation, and so on.

Many of the Senators may be in their offices. When an important vote is called, they will come to the floor to vote. They can get from their offices to the floor in just a few minutes.

Question: If you put tires on your car that are larger than the ones from the factory, would you actually be going slower than the reading on your speedometer?
Answer: No, you'll actually be going faster. The speed is calculated based on the OEM tire size, whereas if you put a larger tire on, there is more circumference so the hub will spin slower, yet will be traveling the same speed.

You can have it recalibrated fairly cheaply.

Question: How does bugspray kills bugs?
Answer: Bugspray is actually a chemical weapon.  As in it shuts down biological functions bugs need to stay alive, like forgetting how to breathe for example.  It can also cause military chemical weapons detection gear to register false positives.

Question: The FairTax plan
Answer: The fair tax is regressive but it offers up citizens a prebate to offset their costs. 

Benefits 

* You are taxing consumption instead of production so it's seen as a more just system. 
* The stress on working household would be lessened since exemptions can be made for food or necessities. 

Disadvantages 

* This tax would stack with other state taxes so in Washington state for example a 35 percent tax would be affixed to most goods. 
* The majority of our economy's activity is consumption so it would quickly stifle growth by discouraging consumption, especially on big ticket items like auto and home purchases. 
* Once the funds accorded to you are spend you are left in the uncomfortable position of having to pay a tax of between 1/4 and 1/3 of the purchase price. 

[Summary of the Idea](_URL_0_)

Question: What is slowing down our internet speeds?
Answer: ISP backbones tend to oversell their bandwidth, because not everyone is using their maximum allocation all the time, so there would be unused potential that isn't generating profits. This is how your neighbors can slow you down. Much of your connection is just you and your wire until you get to some shared trunk.

Second, cheap home equipment can be a significant slowdown; I'd say even the equipment you're renting from your ISP can be crap that can't deliver. Buying something good will require research beyond the scope of this post.

Third, there are slow downs caused by the routing protocols as well as a fundamental design flaw in our network infrastructure. I mean, it takes time to process a packet at each hop, but this shouldn't be terribly significant. But the fundamental flaw is buffer bloat. Look it up, it was identified just a couple years ago. Basically, our routing protocols control data rates and latency by responding to dropped packets; if you're sending more than the receiving end can handle, you slow down. Well, routing equipment these days have a lot of ram, so if they can't send as fast as they're receiving your data, they're just going to buffer your data packets at full speed until the buffer maxes out, then they drop packets. You respond by slowing down, the buffer clears out just a bit, and you start sending at full speed again, until the buffer maxes out. It's dip, after dip, after dip, after dip... And this KILLS performance. The current best way to fix it is to reduce the RAM in the equipment, but no manufacturer is going to sell their newest HyperFast Router, "Now with LESS RAM!!!"

Our routing protocols were designed this way because the early internet didn't have massive buffers, hardware was expensive and so it was out of necessity. We now need new protocols that can take this buffering into account, and they're working on it.

Question: If a computer has a GPU, why would reducing GUI effects impact performance?
Answer: The program has to be written to take advantage of that hardware. The Windows GUI, for example, being your desktop - that rendering code was written before hardware acceleration was ubiquitous. All of your windows, button, and icons are all rendered "in software", aka on your CPU. And your CPU isn't designed specifically for rendering, so reducing effects improves performance.

And some of the big costs in rendering has to do with blending. Transparency is expensive, as can be anti-aliasing. And Windows desktop rendering is done on a single thread, so no matter how many CPUs or cores you have, it won't have much of an impact. Further, rendering happens on the "main thread", which, I believe, is also responsible for IO if memory serves me... When you're busy rendering, there's an event queue of everything you've clicked or typed that's waiting to be processed; not until the screen is refreshed. Many desktop apps are written to be single threaded, so they only execute on one core, so everything the program does happens in sequence. If rendering the window is going to take a long time, everything else in the queue is waiting to get processed. A programmer using C or C++ as their programming language has to write multi threading code themselves to take advantage of it.

Microsoft would have to rewrite that whole software layer to take advantage of a GPU, and they're not going to do that, because they're insane about backwards compatibility. Instead, they wrote a new GUI layer that developers can use going forward. Migration is always slow. Microsoft will probably keep support for their software rendered GUI for decades before they even mark it as deprecated, and then decades more before they remove its availability.

Question: What happens if you don't pay your US Federal income tax?
Answer: I'm no expert on Constitutional Law, but where did you hear that the US income tax has no basis in law and is unconstitutional? The entire purpose of the [16th amendment](_URL_0_) was to make the income tax permanent. It was ratified almost a century ago.

People aren't tricked into paying it for no reason, you can go to jail for tax evasion.

Your income tax is not necessarily deducted from your paycheck, it depends on your withholding allowance.

Question: Why does my employer require a voided personal check in order to setup direct deposit?
Answer: Your banks routing number and your account number as well as your name exactly as it is written on your account are all printed on the check. That is the information they need to set up direct deposit. With the check they can be sure there are no mistakes.

Question: Why are the insides of Ovens Dark and Not Metallic or Mirror Like?
Answer: How often do you polish the inside of your oven? I suspect a big reason would be just to keep the interior from quickly looking horrible.

Question: Why does metal react so violently when microwaved?
Answer: The way microwaves work is through jiggling charged/polar particles in your food (the water primarily). This jiggling increases their temperature and that heats up the rest of your food. That's why you can't heat oil as easily as you can water.

However, metals like iron are *great* conductors of electrons. What makes them good conductors is a little complicated but basically, the reason is that they have a soup of electrons moving from atom to atom with almost 0 energy needed to move an electron from one atom to another. 

Thus when the microwave jiggles these electrons, rather than giving energy to the atom, it gives it to the electron which zips around in the soup. The amount of energy given to the soup can get high enough to bypass the natural insulation of the air and cause electrons to jump from the metal and rip through the air. This is called a spark and is basically what happens during a lightning strike.

Question: Derivatives (in financial markets) and how people make money off of them
Answer: Derivatives are kind of what they sound like, products derived from the value of other things.

A very common type of Derivative is the Future.

A Wheat Farmer is growing 50 tons of wheat, but it won't be harvested until 3 months from now, but he wants to lock in the price he's going to get for it now. 
So he'll use a Future to agree to Sell 50 tons of wheat at $10,000 a ton in 3 months. 
A Speculator may take the other end of that agreement. Sally to Speculator will agree to buy that Wheat at $10k/ton in 3 months. Sally is predicting that Wheat prices will rise in the mean time, and that she'll be able to sell her end of that contract for more money before those 3 months are up.

If the going rate of Wheat in 3 months is actually $12,000/ton, then Sally finds another person, either another speculator, or a person who actually needs wheat for something, and Sally transfers her contract to them. 

A person would be willing to pay almost $2,000 to get Sally's ability to pay $10,000 instead of $12,000. 

So Sally ends up making $2,000 per ton on that price increase.

The part that makes Derivatives so good to potentially make money from, is the amount you have to put up as security is very small compared to hold much of the product you have control over. 

A contract on something like Crude Oil is usually 1,000 barrels of Oil, you might only have to put up about $3,000 to enter an Oil contract, controlling almost $70,000 worth of oil.

In some more extreme cases, like currencies or T-bills, you can put up about $400 to control over $1 million worth of T-bills, or $1,000 to control $1 million of USD Currency.

The most common place way to think of derivatives is like having a coupon. If you're at the store and have a $1 off coupon on Cereal, but you don't want cereal, and someone else does want Cereal, but doesn't have that coupon... that person should be willing to pay you almost $1 to use your coupon.

Derivatives can be a very fast way to both gain and lose money, but they can also be used by businesses and people to hedge their bets and reduce risk on the prices of products they produce or consume. 

EDIT: I should say the actual transfer of money of a futures market is more complicated than I represented above, money is actually transferred daily, not a lump sum when someone 'buys' or 'sells' the contract, its just a little easier to think of that way than worry about daily mark-to-market.

Question: How did the American accent come about?
Answer: It's not so much that Americans developed a distinct accent, but rather that speech on both sides of the Atlantic changed significantly, with both sides diverging quite a bit from what they had sounded like earlier on.  This process is still happening, with accents on the Canadian and US sides of the great lakes undergoing vowel shifts at this very moment, and in opposite directions; Canadian and US accents are actually becoming less similar, even among people in the niagara region who live a few km apart.

Why?  We don't really understand this process at all well.  The key thing relevant to your question though is that accents change a lot, that distance and separation make this process easier and more likely, and that neither English nor an American speakers sound much like their 16th century forebears.

Question: Why do The Miranda Rights state that anything you say can "and will" be used against you. If something's not incriminating why would it be used against you? Why would cops be forced to admit this up front?
Answer: Its just to put emphasis on the fact that *they will* use any and all evidence against you that they can, including anything you say or do.

Question: Why is it when you rewind VHS tapes they lose their quality over time?
Answer: Since rewinding needs to be done for each playback, what makes you think it is the rewinding which causes quality loss? Tapes lose quality over time whether you play them or not due to breakdown of the binder and dry lubricant. Rewinding is no more damaging than playback if the VCR is functioning correctly. 

There is a phenomenon called [print-through](_URL_0_) which transfers signal from one layer to the next. Professional audio engineers often store reel to reel tapes "tails out". That means without rewinding. It doesn't stop print-through, but it does make it happen later rather than earlier, so on playback it will be heard after a track rather than before.

Source: 40 years experience in broadcast VTR/VCR maintenance.

Question: When a new library is built, where do they get their books? I understand many can be bought brand new from publishers. But, what about the old books, or the vast volumes of dated encyclopedias, dated periodicals, etc...
Answer: Librarian here.

A lot of that stuff comes from stores and reserves from other libraries in the system.  My library authority has been around since 1890 and has accumulated decades of stuff that due to archiving policies /librarian OCD hoarding we never throw out,  For example we have 23 libraries in our group with over 750,000 items. Around a 1/6 of that stock is reserves and then rotated to other libraries so it appears new to the customers of that branch.

Encyclopaedias are really common actually, especially older ones we have around 10 full sets of the most common things like Britannica and Oxford.  Any book dealer will most likely have a few sets kicking around if you are short.

In the UK the British Library has virtually every book and periodical ever published, I assume the Library of Congress is the same in US and we can get copies of stuff from them. 

TL:DR a combination of stuff hidden in basements and storage supplemented by specialist periodical providers

Question: What was the Beat Generation about? Were Beatniks a stereotype or a factual reflection of this philosophy?
Answer: Basically, in the 1950s things were very ... basic. Conservative values reigned, the biggest fashion was "normal". Some today still think of this as our golden age (unless you're a minority or a woman), but everything was very inside-the-box type thinking. Buy a house with a white picket fence, get a job at the local company, have 2.5 kids, etc.

At the same time, the US was introduced to Eastern Philosophy and psychedelic drugs. These had existed before, but for various reasons they became more widely available. Beat Generation authors learned about and experienced these things and decided to reject the "normal" values. Specifically, they wrote books/poetry about explicitly sexual things, about raw human emotions, about abnormal things like homosexuality, drugs, leaving materialism in favor of a spiritual quest, etc. 

This obviously was not met with praise from the "normal" folk, though it was hugely popular with the youth. Eventually a clash happened in the form of a trial over whether Allen Ginsberg's famous poem Howl could be censored/banned because it was obscene. The beat poet won, and really liberalism won, as it was declared that the poem had redeeming social value (which is a pretty interesting thing, that the courts basically gave a stamp of legitimacy to a cultural trend). 

As far as stereotypes vs. real, it is hard to say. It was a huge struggle breaking out of the "normal", but it quickly gave way to the hippies and counterculture in the 60s and 70s. People who followed the Beat ideas were mostly authentic, but it would be hard to tease out a "philosophy" other than "we should rebel and form a new philosophy". Still, as far as being interesting, it definitely is. Ginsberg (Howl) and Jack Kerouac (On the Road) are definitely the two main authors to check out, and both works are relatively short. Also Naked Lunch is fairly famous, and similarly, themed. 

One thing to keep in mind, though, is that along with everything else these guys were purposely rejecting normal narrative style and story structure. So, if you try to read them like a "normal" story, you will think it is not good. But if you appreciate what they're trying to do, trying to have an authentic mental/spiritual experience in a very conservative and boring society, it is pretty interesting.

Question: If the ozone layer is made up of O3, why are we not producing some of it ourselves and pumping more of them into the atmosphere to fix the problem faster?
Answer: > Ozone is a powerful oxidizing agent, far stronger than O2. It is also **unstable at high concentrations**, decaying to ordinary diatomic oxygen. [...] In a sealed chamber, with fan moving the gas, ozone has a **half-life of approximately a day at room temperature**.

_URL_0_

TL;DR: It is very unstable. It will decay fairly quickly; half of the ozone you make today will be gone tomorrow, turned into regular oxygen gas.

Question: What is Gene therapy?
Answer: Say you have a recipe for a chocolate cake. Except instead of saying 1 cup of sugar, the recipe says 1 cup of salt. Every time someone makes a cake using that recipe, it's going to taste like crap.

Modern medicine is like trying to fix the cake once it's already made. You can add sugar to the top of the cake after the fact, or try to cut out the saltiest parts of the cake. Sometimes, you can try to tell each baker not to add the salt individually. But the best way to fix the problem is the correct the recipe. That's what gene therapy tries to do.

Genes are like recipes for your body. DNA is like the letters in the sentences. Proteins are like the cake. Gene therapy is about cutting out letters and adding new ones so that you get the proper proteins at the end of it.

The possibilities are endless. There are a ton of diseases that are caused by genetic problems. Some like cystic fibrosis and sickle cell anemia are directly caused by genetic problems. Others like cancer, heart disease, diabetes, etc. are hugely influenced by genes. If you can rewrite disease causing genes, you can eliminate these illnesses at the source.

The therapy doesn't exist yet. There are lots of experiments, but no one has quite figured it out yet. Once they do, they'll almost certainly cure some major diseases, and win some Nobel Prizes. The most promising idea is to use a virus to help us. Viruses already rewrite genes. Usually when they do, it hurts us. But if you can get a virus to "join our side" they can be used to rewrite genes in ways that help people. 

Gene therapy has a potential downside though. If you can rewrite genes to make people not get disease, what's to stop people from rewriting genes so their kids are 7-foot tall, blonde hair, blue eyed genius supermodels? What happens to people who can't afford the therapy? Genetics does everything possible to create diversity in a society, but gene therapy reduces it. If everyone decides they want to have blonde haired children, what happens when a disease comes along that only kills blonde haired people? There might not be enough non-blonde kids left to continue the human race.

Overall, gene therapy is a remarkable idea that can help billions of people. It has ethical risks, but the benefits would likely far exceed the potential for harm.

Question: Is it possible to be a 'man without a country'?
Answer: It is entirely possible to be such a person, it's called statelessness.

At one point, Einstein was stateless. However, renouncing your citizenship means you have no protection by any state. This is very bad, as we are as a species very largely reliant on our respective corporate states of the world.

I personally identify as a citizen of no country, if you wish to go stateless, I suggest you study the subject further and figure out how to survive without a state.

Question: How do the grooves on a record/LP actually recreate the sound of a full orchestra?
Answer: Think of every single instrument making their vibrations - some loud, some soft, some brash, some smooth, some at one pitch, others at another.

Every one of those vibrations add up together and bounce against your eardrum in beautiful chaos.  The specific way your eardrum vibrates as a result of all that is what your brain is able to process as all those sounds at once!

Now, if you were able to draw the way your eardrum vibrates back and forth like a earthquake seismograph, now you have a line that makes the shape of the whole orchestra!  Now just make a groove in that same exact shape, hook it up to a microphone, and now you have those sounds again, just like the instruments were there.

Question: In the English language, how are contractions prioritized when a word can belong to two different contractions?
Answer: It's a matter of emphasis. "We aren't going" could be simply spoken, or the "we" could be emphasized (an emphasis that is lost in simple text). Similarly "We're not going" could be used to emphasize the "not" part. Beyond that it's preference. The stylistic choices of language are everywhere, and it's one of the main reasons that most sentences of reasonable length have never been written before.

Question: Eating things from other planets or moons.
Answer: There is a big piece to this question which is not intuitive: chirality. Basically, the food we eat is useful to our bodies because the molecules can be used to build or repair our cells or can be turned into energy. Either way, our cells make use of chemicals called enzymes that are basically molecule sized tools. Enzymes literally fit around the molecules they are designed to attach to, so the shape is very important.

Ok, you go to Europa (not proven to have life yet, btw), and find a fish that looks particularly tasty. On inspection, it seems like it is made of similar stuff to life on earth: carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, etc. You eat the fish for a while... And starve to death. Turns out that because the fish evolved on a different planet, it's molecules, while similar to ours, are like mirror images of ours. They don't fit into our enzymes, and so our bodies can't digest them.

Chirality appears on earth, too. The chemical that makes spearmint taste minty is a mirror image of the flavor of caraway seeds (found in rye bread and sausages). Interestingly, all life (I think) on earth shares the same chirality, evidence of a common tree of life.

Question: The Cuban Missle Crisis and Americas enormous beef with Cuba, what happened there?
Answer: The beef wasn't with Cuba, the beef was with the USSR.  The Soviets were trying to use their communist ally in The West as a beachhead for terror.  (Not the modern definition of terror, the old-fashioned one).  By placing ICBMs in Cuba (aimed at the United States) they wanted to cast a cloak of fear over the U.S.  Cold War tactics at its finest.

Question: How do you build a Nanorobot..?
Answer: Weeeeellllllllllll... the title 'nanorobot' is a bit misleading in this case, they actually genetically engineered some salmonella bacteria (non harmful versions of it at least) to seek out cancer cells. They also filled the bacteria with cancer killing drugs and programmed it to explode on contact with a cancerous cell, providing targeted medication which means they can use more powerful drugs without causing the collateral damage normally associated with eg. chemotherapy (hair loss, nausea etc).

While this is very cool and definitely the way forward for medicine, it falls more under the category of Genetic Modification than Nanorobotics. These do have a lot of overlap as a lot of nanorobot production is done using genetically modified cells because.. cells are good at that kind of thing, however there are a load of stigma and negative connotations attached to GM stuff, so most medical development uses Nanorobotics as a descriptor because it makes it more likely to receive positive press coverage and funding. 

And use, patient confidence is important, which sounds better "we would like to fill you full of genetically engineered super-bacteria-suicide-bombers blow up your cancer" or "we would like to introduce an army of nanorobots to annihilate the cancerous cells". Actually on second thought those both sound pretty cool to me.

Question: Why doesn't it rain salt water?
Answer: When water evaporates, it gets heated to an extent that the water particles move faster and spread apart, which causes them to become "lighter" than the air around them, turning into water vapor, a gas. Due to this, they rise up into the atmosphere. Then, they start to cool down, and become liquid again. When they become cool enough that they're heavier than the air, it rains back down.

This is the basic water cycle.

The salt which makes it salt water requires a much higher temperature to turn into gas, one which doesn't normally happen during this cycle. Because of this, it does not follow the water, and thus, it doesn't rain salt water.

Question: Why can't we use a centrifuge to de-salinate ocean water?
Answer: A centrifuge is typically  used to separate a heterogeneous mixture of solid and liquid by spinning it. Salt water is a solution, so if it is even possible, I am sure the energy, time and expense are enormous.

Question: Why do most viral videos now have licensing info in the description box?
Answer: I'm not sure whether you mean licensing info for the video itself or for 3rd part content in the video, but if it's the former then people angling to create viral videos will want to exert their creative rights over it in case it really does take off, because viral things like Grumpy Cat and Nyan Cat can end up being worth a lot of money. And if it's licensing info for 3rd party content, some content is free to use so long as you attribute it under certain conditions, and one of those conditions is often linking to the license.

Question: What is a MAC Address?
Answer: It's a unique device address given to each piece of network connected hardware. It's different from an IP address because it's permanent: every device has one and only one MAC address, but it is given a new IP address every time it connects. 

Edit: You can think of the MAC address as a device's permanent name, and the IP address as an instruction for other devices to find it. Your device *is* MAC number X, and it *can be found at* IP address Y.

Question: How are adept music players able to just start playing along to anything that someone else plays and have it sound good?
Answer: i’m a drummer so i’m not speaking for guitarists/bassists here.

in drums there’s basically three things to improvisation - the time signature, the tempo and confidence (in my experience). 

the time signature is pretty easy to find out - you only need to listen to one bar to figure it out really. 
time signature is stuff like 4/4, which means there’s 4 quarter notes in a bar basically. kind of easy if you know how to count time signatures.

tempo could be more difficult depending on how much rhythm you have. tempo is literally just how fast or slow you go, at it’s simplest. i’m quite good at keeping time and getting tempo right so i don’t really worry about that but some are worse. if you’re an experienced drummer, you’ll most likely be good at this. 

confidence is key when playing as a whole. only a drummer can tell when a drummer goes wrong usually, you just gotta have the confidence to carry on and ignore your mishap. often it doesn’t matter what drum you hit, just how you hit it and what time you hit it (although obviously some combinations sound better than others!)

another factor would be experience and knowledge of different beats. if you only know one simple rock rhythm then you’re probably not gonna be very good at improvisation cause you’ll be doing the same thing every time. 

i’ve only been drumming for a year in november and i can improvise very well along with guitar/piano so it’s not as difficult as it seems as long as you put practice into learning the instrument and also practice improvising. you’re never gonna be good the first time but you get better.

Question: Why drill instructor in the army never stop screaming at recruit in the army?
Answer: >  What's the point of screaming at people like that?

It is intended to rattle the recruits mentally, making them feel like they are incapable and useless. The idea is to break their self-esteem and then the group will be given tasks where the support of the entire unit is necessary to succeed. To drive the point home they will often employ collective punishment so every recruit has an interest in making sure their peers succeed.

All this has the goal of making the resulting soldiers psychologically dependent upon the military and their comrades. By creating this bond through surviving abuse it puts the soldiers in a better position to be confident in the support of their peers during combat, and for those peers to run into danger in the support of their comrades.

Such a technique makes great soldiers. It also arguably seriously messes people up when they get out of the military because in essence they have been psychologically abused to foster a bond with the military culture. Ex-military basically have a version of battered woman syndrome and need to relearn individuality and self-confidence outside of the military.

Question: if i ground up a piece of pure iron and ate it, would my body abosorb it the same way as iron from food? if not, how do they make iron supplements absorb-able?
Answer: You eat shaved iron every time you have breakfast cereal. If you take total cereal, crush it up, add a little milk to make a broth consistancy, and stir it with a strong magnet, you will see actual iron shavings sticking to your magnet.

_URL_0_

Question: Whats is the actual cause of the common itch. and why is scratching it the cure?
Answer: 1: dead skin

2: your body's reaction to get rid of it.

Bonus: a lot of dust in your house is said dead skin.

Question: When popcorn is popping, what is actually happening to the kernel inside?
Answer: As the kernel is heated, the moisture and oils are being heated inside. Since the outer shell of popping corn is strong and mostly impenetrable, there is no place for the heat and pressure to go and the insides are superheated. The starches inside, which are normally hard, begin to soften in a process called gelatinization. Interior pressure continues to rise until the kernel's shell ruptures. Steam rapidly expands causing the innards to expand in a foamy substance, which afterwards quickly cools into a crispy puff.

Question: What happens to your brain when you space out?
Answer: There are two kinds of spacing out. There is background processing - thinking about stuff that isn't apparent to you consciously, and basically resting your mind. 

For most of evolutionary history, energy was the limiting factor for most species. Sleeping is not only helpful for repairing your body, but also for reducing your calorie burden. Spacing out is a kind of low energy state that is more alert than sleeping but less energy consuming than active thinking.

Question: What is the point of a Kroger's Shopper card?
Answer: The general idea is that by offering a discount card, you will shop more frequently at that specific chain than others (although in reality, this isn't often the case).  They may also collect your email to send you regular marketing ads, in hopes of bringing you in.

If the extra profit generated from you buying items at that store vs another store exceeds the discounts given on that trip, then the store benefits.

Question: What is a floating neutral and why is it damaging to appliances?
Answer: Coming into your house you have two phases which are both 120VAC *relative to neutral* but are of inverse phase so they're 240VAC relative to each other.

A floating neutral is when your neutral connection opens for some reason, a wire might break.  When this happens, it means that the electricity can't flow in its normal path.

If an outlet was powered by a straight pull from the breaker box and has hot come from the breaker, go to the outlet, then neutral runs straight back, then losing neutral means that power stops flowing and nothing exciting happens

If your outlet is wired so the top and bottom plugs are different circuits then one is going to be Phase A and the other Phase B.  This means that when the shared neutral breaks, any devices plugged in will go from seeing 120VAC to seeing 240VAC which will destroy many devices quickly.

Question: Why haven't our bodies changed to make childbirth less painful?
Answer: So the only way that the process of childbirth would change is through evolution of some kind. The only way evolution happens is if the genetically superior reproduce and those who aren’t die. Theoretically if there was a woman who could go through childbirth totally painlessly and she passed that trait on to her child, the child could pass the trait on and on until it made up the mass populous. This would take millions of years and to guarantee that all women experienced it, all who felt pain during childbirth would have to not reproduce. 


Think about it like this. Apples were high on the tree. All the long necked giraffes reached the apples, lived and eventually reproduced. All the shortnecked giraffes died and that’s why we only today see long necked giraffes.

Question: American TV shows compared to The rest of the world.
Answer: The amount of American hate / bashing on Reddit is amazing.

Question: How do people add colour so accurately to black and white photos?
Answer: It's basically painting a transparent picture on top of the black-and-white, and the B/W image provides much of the shading. 

In the days before photoshop, you had actual transparent inks with limited tints to choose from, and that's why old hand-colorized photos often look more cartoony.

Now, you can pick from a vast range of colors until it more or less matches what you would expect: a white person with fair hair will probably have skin in X color range, unpainted wood furniture is going to be a shade of brown, jeans are almost certainly blue, a military uniform from that era is going to be this particular color, etc. 

Plus if you have experience with B/W photography you might have a sense for how some colors will translate to film; they often have a particular range of grey due to the characteristics of a given film.

So accurate colorizing mostly comes down to digital painting skill and having a sense for how things would look.

Question: How do service animals help autistic children?
Answer: Multiple ways, and by the way it's not just autistic *children* who can benefit from service animals.

Among other things:

* service animals can detect the early signs of a meltdown or shutdown, which are things often (but not exclusively) triggered by sensory overstimulation, and can provide a prompt to leave the situation causing that overstim
* they can provide active stimulation to aid with grounding
* they can help reinforce ritual, which is frequently important for autistic people

Question: Why do books downloaded from the library need to be "returned" after a given amount of time?
Answer: > This makes no sense because downloads are not limited like physical copies of books are.

Downloads are limited in the sense that the library has to pay for every copy of a book that they own, including digital copies.  So they pay the publisher $X for permission to lend some fixed number of digital copies.  And the reader software is set up to that the borrower isn't able to retain possess of that copy forever.

If that weren't the case, then book sales would drop essentially to nothing, since everyone could just get a free copy of any book whenever they wanted for as long as they wanted.

Question: How does Stephen Hawking's speech computer work?
Answer: He has a small sensor in his mouth and uses his cheek muscle to type with it. His computer also has the ability to predict and correct words for him.

Question: If a self-driving car detects multiple courses of action (all of which will likely result in human injury) how will it determine which course to take?
Answer: It will do whatever it is programed to do in that situation.  Self driving cars are not true conscious A.I - they are just really, really complex "if...then" programs.  If it gets into a situation where an accident is unavoidable, it will do what its programing tells it to do in that situation.

As far as liability, we don't know yet.  It's possible that the programer would be liable for the accident but we'll need a court case to set precedent before we really know.

Question: why does spicy food make me sweat?
Answer: "The answer hinges on the fact that spicy foods excite the receptors in the skin that normally respond to heat. Those receptors are pain fibers, technically known as polymodal nociceptors. They respond to temperature extremes and to intense mechanical stimulation, such as pinching and cutting; they also respond to certain chemical influences. The central nervous system can be confused or fooled when these pain fibers are stimulated by a chemical, like that in chile peppers, which triggers an ambiguous neural response."

Source: _URL_0_

Question: If there are no size regulations regarding goalies in the NHL, why doesn't a team just throw some really obese person out there to block the whole net?
Answer: An NHL goal is 6 feet wide by 4 feet wide. I doubt there's many people actually large enough to block that entire area. And if there is someone that big, I doubt they'd be able to stand up and skate their way out to the net.

Question: If animals aren't aware that they are going to die, why would they try so hard to survive?
Answer: Because they are genetically programmed to. It's evolution. Individuals that do not try to survive are not able to live long enough to reproduce - or in some species' cases, to care for their young either (imagine a mother dying and leaving her babies helpless).

Trying to survive doesn't mean you need any special awareness of what death means though. All you need is to be programmed to run at the sight of a particular predator. Your computer is programmed to run millions of things, even your programs literally try to survive without crashing, but it doesn't mean your computer needs to be self-aware to perform those tasks. Self-awareness is not required for a survival instinct.

At its most basic level, it's programming that says "Bad thing detected. Flee from or kill bad thing."

It's wrong to even say they have motivation (for most animals), it's simply just what they do. It's like asking why your car tries to survive. It's a false question. Motivation isn't a factor.

For your more intelligent animals, survival is a motivator because survival means avoiding pain and suffering. They aren't really thinking "I want to survive" so much as they are thinking "I want to avoid horrible pain".

Question: How can a computer come up with a "random" number?
Answer: Generally yes, anything generated by an algorithm can be reproduced if you know the "initial" settings. Numbers generated this way are referred to as "psuedorandom". 

There do, however, exist various dedicated hardware solutions that allow computers to pick truly random numbers. They work by basically installing in the computer some sort of sensor that can detect random properties of nature. 

An example might be some sort of detector that picks up low levels of radiation. While we can make statistical predictions of radioactive decay over time, the actual decay of individual particles is truly random, and cannot be predicted with perfect accuracy. A sensor designed to measure those tiny random variations and feed them to a computer could generate truly random numbers.

Question: Why are scars near impossible to get rid of?
Answer: Scar tissue is different to normal skin.  It contains more collagen than regular tissue, and doesn't structure the same as regular skin, which is why it looks so different.  It's also less flexible.

The benefits to having scar tissue is the body can recover from wounds exceptionally quickly - many animals can't create scar tissue, and so wounds can remain open longer and are more susceptible to infection and other problems.  Conversely, other animals can regenerate entire limbs whereas we can't.

Interestingly, the collagen in your scar tissue is constantly replaced.  If your body stops producing collagen (due to certain illnesses), your scars' wounds can actually reopen.

The scar is difficult to get rid of because the tissue has been created in a less structured/ordered form than your regular skin (because it was deployed quickly to help heal the wound), but some medical procedures exist to reduce that effect.

Question: Why don't developed countries make their own clothing without child labour?
Answer: Because it's cheaper to have it made in other countries.

Question: Two spaceships are travelling towards each other at speed of light..
Answer: First thing's first, neither ship can travel at the speed of light. As long as they have mass, it just can't happen. This isn't some silly nitpicky thing, it's fundamental to the theories of relativity, and it really honestly doesn't make sense to talk about massive things travelling at the speed of light.

But in any case, your question works just as well if they're both going at, say, 0.9c. Now, the reason that the speeds don't add up is that whoever told you they should was wrong. Speeds don't actually work like that. Weird, huh?

What's actually the case is speeds really add in a slightly different way, given [here](_URL_0_). As long as the speeds are small compared to the speed of light, they add more or less in the inuitive way with one plus the other. But as they increase towards c, the rest of the mathematics is essential to the description and velocities turn out not to add linearly after all.

Edit: Just to be clear, this all depends on what frame of reference you ask the question from. Are you on a spaceship, or directly between the two ships, or standing to the side, or what? If you're on a spaceship and they're both going at 0.9c relative to the stationary frame watching them, you'll see the other one approaching at about 0.994c. But if you're standing 'stationary' in between them, you can calculate their relative velocity to be 1.8c, even though neither ship will measure the other to be travelling that fast.

Question: Why can we eat sushi raw but not other meats?
Answer: The short answer is: If it's clean, you can.

Weather we can eat a food raw or not depends on if it carries things that might make us sick, or might have picked up something that would make us sick.  

In particular, with Sushi, fish is processed in methods that separate the "dirty" bits quickly, and completely.  (gutting a fish)  That leave you with clean, safe, slabs of fish to work with.  Also, things that make fish sick, don't necessarily make people sick.  Importantly, care is taken so the surfaces of the deceased fish are kept clean.

Something such as beef, isn't processed as cleanly, or quickly.  And cleaning and speerating the cuts isn't as clean.  They also can be made sick by the same things that make us sick.  

If you treat "meat" right, raw meat is just fine for you.  Steak Tartare, and Carpaccio are both rare preparations of beef.  If you take the same sort of care that you do with fish, you "can" eat meat raw.  

Rare steak, is essentially raw in the middle.  The advantage there is by quickly cooking the outside, you kill the bugs that might be on the meats surface.  

There are also other ways of making meat "clean" that don't involve cooking. Pickling, salting, smoking, all could still be "raw" food, depending on how you define it.

Question: Why is it when oil prices go up gas prices immediately go up but when oil prices come down the price of gas never comes down as fast as when the price of oil increases?
Answer: On TV, when the price of gas goes up, they say they have no choice but to sell it higher in gas stations too.

But when the price goes down, they say that they had already bought a lot of gas when it was higher so they cannot lower the prices immediately or they'd lose money on it.

There is probably a good explanation for it but my guess is that it's another of these "Heads I win, Tails, you lose" situation ;)

Question: How does a linear induction motor work?
Answer: Alright, the only word in there you gotta worry about is 'induction'. 'Motor' just means it moves stuff, and 'linear' just means it moves stuff in a straight line (or close to it).  
As for 'induction': When you've got electricity moving, it can create a magnetic field (i.e. what magnets make). That magnetic field can move stuff like you could with a magnet if you work the electric current just right. How do you work it just right? Well you basically line up a row of electromagnets (i.e. magnets you can turn off and on, or those pink things in figure 23 in that pdf) ~~and turn them on/off as they move along the iron stator (basically a chunk of iron that's attracted to magnets) so that the magnets are always getting pulled forward.~~  
This kind of motor has two main advantages. One is that since nothing needs to be touching, you reduce friction, so things can go faster. The other is that the motor doesn't need much in the way of moving parts since it's all electricity, so things don't wear out as fast.  
Does that help?  
EDIT: See later post. Read a few things wrong in my first read of the pdf.

Question: Does time ever end, or is the future infinite?
Answer: That's a really good question, as if deals with the metaphysical in a physical context; basically, the universe will end before time ends, so we have no real way of knowing. However, one could argue that time will end when physical existence ends; in that case, the end of time will come with the end of the Universe.

Question: Why "crazy people" have that distinctive look to their eyes
Answer: In many psychotic individuals, the wide eyed look is because of their intense anxiety levels.  It's more than just the eyes though.  In someone psychotically agitated, you'll see facial grimacing and body postures indicating stress or aggression as well.

The scariest patients are the ones that have a flat affect, meaning they just have a blank stare all the time.  Though many of them are lost in their own world and harmless, some are not.  They are concerning because i can't judge their propensity towards violence at any given time.

Source: IAMA Psychiatric RN

Question: The NASA twin study. I know what it is. Just explain their findings. Like I'm 5. Years old. Thanks.
Answer: There are a lot of effects on the human body from being in space. Micro gravity affects your muscles and bones, there are weird particles that pass through your body (including your eyes and brain, which cause [strange flashes](_URL_0_)). It's hard to study the long-term effects of being in space, though, because everyone is a little different. Are your bones deteriorating because of the microgravity, or is it because of genetic predisposition for osteoporosis?

This is true of any study that attempts to look at long-term effects of something. To account for as many variables as possible the best subjects to use for those studies are twins. Because they're genetically identical, you know that whatever genetic predispositions they have will affect both. So in this case, if they *both* get weaker bones, you know that it's not *just* the microgravity. But if one gets weaker bones and the other doesn't, then you know it's something to do with being in space (or not, as the case may be). 

However, with astronauts you have another problem: you can't just take a random twin and put them in space. You need a *lot* of specialized training to be an astronaut, obviously. And you can't even just train one. The rigorous training and strictly controlled diet of astronauts are variables that could affect the outcomes of the study. This astronaut has stronger bones than his non-astronaut twin, but is that because of his diet that includes a lot of calcium, or strength training that went into being an astronaut?

Conveniently, NASA has one set of twin brothers that are both astronauts! They've both had very similar experiences as part of NASA. One is spending a year on the ISS, the other is staying on the ground but also getting the same diet and exercise regimen - basically as much as they can keep the same with him on the ground. They'll study the differences between the two astronauts to study long-term effects of being in space.

This is an important study because going to Mars would require longer space missions than we've done in the past. No one has stayed in space that long, really, and we haven't had good opportunities to study them and the effects of that. So they're doing this study to better understand what we need to prepare our astronauts for if we're going to successfully send a team to Mars.

Question: What is the point of money?
Answer: It helps to understand the barter system.  

Before we had money, you would travel to a central trading post a few times a year to get things you couldn't make yourself.  You would haul things with you to trade - maybe a stack of animal pelts, or jars of jam, or sacks of wheat flour.  You would negotiate with the people at the trading post to get what you needed - six pelts for a sack of salt, two dozen jars of jam for a bolt of cotton cloth.  Each person had valuable goods, and they traded that value.

A problem happens when you can't easily trade for what you need.  A shoemaker is a very useful guy to have around, but he can't really trade a whole pair of shoes every time he wants to buy a meal.  If I was an innkeeper who needed boots, I might make him a deal for credit - we might agree one sturdy pair of boots is worth 30 meals.  The Innkeeper might keep a ledger saying who has meals coming to make sure it stays fair.

Still, the Innkeeper's ledger doesn't do the shoemaker much good if his roof is leaking.  The shoemaker needs to trade with someone to repair the roof, which is fine if the repairman needs boots.  If not, maybe the shoemaker could trade the repairman his credit for 10 meals at the Inn?  If he can pass his credit to the repairman, then everybody gets what they want.

This is a basic kind of money - it's backed by the Innkeeper, who says that the credit is worth a meal.  It's worth hanging onto even if you don't plan to eat at the Inn, because you can trade it to other people for goods or services.  That way, you can trade with someone even if you don't have anything to trade that they want.

Eventually, it doesn't matter if the Innkeeper even provides the meals anymore.  People use the credits as markers for trade - 3 credits for a pelt, 2 jars of jam for a credit.  Nobody eats at the Inn, so the money is only backed by what people agree it's worth.  As long as everyone is free to negotiate, the credit is still worth exactly what people believe it is worth.

Question: Why does charge build up in a cloud?
Answer: Bits of dust stick to the water or float through the air.  The dust and water rubs against each other and every time they do, some electrons get passed from one to the other.  Then the particles wander off again before the electrons get passed back.  This goes on enough, and *tons* of electrons get thrown around until it builds up a very very large negative charge.  The result is lightning: the charge gets explosively released.  Sometimes this means from one section of cloud to another, or into the ground.

Question: the hypothetical turtle on an island in the sun question?
Answer: I *think* what you are taking about is a test from the book "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep" on which the film "Blade Runner" was based.

If so, the test aims to distinguish humans from androids ('replicants') through their emotional response to questions requiring empathy.

_URL_0_

Question: how does a home equity loan work?
Answer: A home equity loan is a loan that is based off the difference between the value of the house and the current balance of the primary mortage.

If you paid $50,000 for a house that's worth $75,000, you can get $25,000 in equity loans.    Subsequently, if your house was worth $75K when you bought it and it's now worth $135K because reasons, you can now get that much more in your equity loan.

In theory, you don't have to wait at all to get a loan.  If you sign on the dotted line for the $75K house for a $50K mortgage, you could turn right around that day and get a $25K equity loan.  you just have to have the equity in the house to get the loan.

Question: In English, what is the rule for the use of “An” or “A”
Answer: An is used for words that start with a vowel sound.

Examples,

An owl, an hour, an eight, an apple, an onion.

A is used for all others.

Question: Why do we have two small nostrils and not one larger nostril?
Answer: It's usually not noticeable unless you sniff harshly, but one nostril is usually more open and free-flowing than the other. 

The nostril that's closed usually swaps back and forth after several hours throughout the day. When a nostril is more closed, it's swollen, because the blood vessels inside the nose are swollen. 

During that time, your immune system attacks all the nasty stuff that came into your nose. It's harder to breathe when that happens. But your other nostril is wide open and maximum air comes in. 

This combination of having one closed nostril and one open nostril is a super efficient way for your body to both clean the nasties and breathe full air at the same time. If it was all just 1 nostril, then every few hours you would have difficulty breathing. 

Air breathed through the nostrils are combined in the back and flow into both longs. One nostril does not lead into one lung.

Question: Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)
Answer: I stumpled across this subreddit and saw this and said, what an excellent chance for me to jump in for once.

I am a network Engineer.

BGP is a very, very complex routing protocol that the entire internet pretty much runs on.

I don't know how familiar you are with routing protocols, but there a lot of things involved. Primarily, you have the administrative distance, that dictates which route a router will decided based on the protocol

SO for an example, RIP has one of 120, OSPF of 110, and a static of 10. Internal BGP (routes within your Autonomous System number) have it of 200, and external of 20. The lower the number the lower the cost, and that router will choose that route.

Then there are metrics, which are variables you can sorta play with to get the outcome of your routers routing decisions. In BGP there are many of these, and I can't even begin to go into all them, mainly because I still don't know all them.

SO how is this so complicated?

You have router A B and C. They are a triangle, simple routing protocols can find routers to each other and even passive routes if active ones fail. But now let's talk the internet.

Now you have to create a sure fire to advertise your routers and etc correctly so that anywhere in the internet knows how to get to you and vice versa. To get to router E, you must take path D, then C, then B. But if router C goes down, take route F, then G, and H. But if router D goes down take Route R, and then S. But if route R goes down take X, and F, etc etc, just turning that triangle into a pentagon creates a headache, no imagine the giant rat fuck nest that is the internet.

There is no router god that overlooks all this, typically you manage what you know of, and there will be some higher echelon that knows more, and on and on, but you can see where the confusion comes in. 

BGP is incredibly powerful, yet extremely fragile, and at times AMAZINGLY DANGEROUS. A man who knows what he's doing, and a man who doesn't know what he's doing, could, potentially take down the internet in some big ass regions of the world. 

Hope this helps.

Question: Why do car rims appear to be rotating backwards after a car accelerates?
Answer: /r/flooey is partially correct. That is the reason wheels appear to move backwards on film. This effect can be leveraged with a stroboscope [for an odd illusion](_URL_0_) even in real life, by imitating the film effect and only allowing your eyes to see individual 'frames' in time.

However, as you probably noticed (and I assume are asking about), this happens in real life as well, under continuous lighting. Excitingly, we don't really know why this happens! There are [two competing theories](_URL_1_) at the moment. One is basically that visual perception actually does act like a camera, and only processes small snapshots at a time.

However, later experiments found that this explanation fails in several circumstances. The hypothesis proposed by those researchers is that this effect is instead to do not with snapshotting of the entire visual system, but a kind of ersatz snapshotting to do with propagation delays in the particular subsystem that does motion detection in the brain (Reichardt detectors).

Question: How the heck do authorities determine who started a massive fire in the middle of the woods somewhere?
Answer: The first arriving units will most often be at the fire before it gets large, so they can relay to the investigators where the fire was and how big it was when they arrived on scene. 
Fires will also leave lots of clues as to how fast and hot it burned but also the direction that it came from. There are origin indicators like needle freeze (pine needles that freeze and point in the opposite direction of where the fire came from), charring on trees can tell you a lot depending on how intense the fire was when it burned the tree. Grass can fall back towards the origin in a low intensity fire. There could be no soot on a large rock on the opposite side of where the fire came from. Those are just a few examples. 
As to finding how the fire started they have to look at the origin of the fire which is why you look for that before you start looking for how. Once at the origin,  depending on how the fire was started it could be hard easy or impossible to determine. A hot start, where someone just holds a lighter or similar flaming material to the fuel and then takes the lighter and flees is hard to prove. But often times fires don't durn so hot when they first start, depending on many factors, and there could be evidence left behind as to an ignition source. Most accidental fires you can find out who did it either because they confessed or they weren't trying to get away with it so there are witnesses and more evidence. Also most arsonists don't just start ONE fire, they start many. And once there is a known arsonist working an area reports become more general so you can charge him with more fires knowing that you have some that are definitely him and some probably aren't but can't rule him out for it. 
And for big, expensive, deadly or suspected arsonist fires there will be multiple expert investigators. 

Source: I'm a fireman that took a couple week long classes on origin and cause determination. Wild land fires aren't really my thing but I'm just relaying what was taught to me. 
Edit: spelling and a parenthesis

Question: How do film/tv productions handle deaths of actors? Examples?
Answer: Usually it leaves them scrambling.  I know when John Ritter died they actually had to write that death into "8 Simple Rules".

Question: Does the Sound Increase in Real Life when Someone on Television Increases the Sound?
Answer: The volume control on your laptop or speakers essentially controls the loudest volume you can get - anything that tries to be louder can be distorted. But anything quieter than that is possible.

So what might be happening in the movie is that the radio might start at a quarter of the maximum volume level. When they show him turning the dial, they also increase the sound of the radio to half, or three quarters, or full. So it is getting louder, although it can only get up to a certain point. It wouldn't be possible to get your earbuds to be as loud as a rock concert, for example.

Question: What would happen if all the countries wiped all the debt incurred by and owed to each other?
Answer: Not an expert in the topic but I have some knowledge

Debt isn't necessarily a bad thing as it represents a flow of money. This is why the average lifestyle in America is comfortably more lavish than those of in China. This is made possible because Americans are in better position to take out large loans and pay them back in the future.

If all the debt were to be wiped out then that would mean banks would lose a very high percentage of income.

Heres where my knowledge stops as my train of thought has been limited to what I know.

Question: How is complimenting a woman on the street considered street harassment?
Answer: Part of the issue is that like many things in life the difference between something being nice, acceptable, and annoying has to do with how often something happens. If you don't see another car on the road for an hour it can be a relief to see one, a few cars are okay, and a lot of cars results in road range. In the video she got roughly one comment every 5 minutes. If my day was interrupted every 5 minutes by someone wanting my attention I'd find it difficult to get anything done or even be able to think.

Another aspect is that the comments are mostly seeking attention. Some of them were requests ("Can I have your number?") some were comments which are said loudly enough to try and provoke a reaction ("Nice ass") and some were instructions ("Smile"). When I'm approaching a person, I look at body language, make eye contact, and then talk. Shouting at someone, trying to get their attention when they are busy, or making demands of them all feel unnecessarily aggressive, yet that's precisely what most of these "compliments" are. They aren't compliments, they are demands for attention.

There are other examples I could use -- such as comparing this to harassment by paparazzi, unsolicited phone calls, or stalking. However in some ways it's simpler: US supreme court justice Louis Brandeis argued that there is a human "right to be let alone", and this video suggests that with the frequent persistent demands, this right simply doesn't exist for women in many places.

Question: What is fake meat made of and how do they get the texture to be so similar to real meat?
Answer: Soy burgers = soy protein. (dont eat too much soy: hormone mimickers). Texture is naturally kinda 'meaty'. 

Myco burgers = mycelium. That's what mushrooms are grown from. They can't call em mushroom burgers, because mushrooms are the fruit the mycelium would produce. The mycelium is just a really fast reproducing cell that grows readily on MANY MANY substrates, usually best at a certain temp and humidity. -We will literally NEVER run out of a cheap protein source because of this invention (lofted mycelium growing- hot air blows up cloud of mycelium, which colonize lofted in host matter, usually in a hot steam environment.. It literally colonizes in a matter of minutes. - voila: mass food - more protein than steak per gram and no fat). 

Finding a good mycelium was they key for this to be useful. So, basically, after a lot of trials, they finally found a mycelium which had a texture very similar to a hamburger. (Monsanto funded most of this).    

I used to be interested in solving the worlds food problems, until I found out the problem isn't lack of food but rather infrastructure and bureaucracy. 

Fake shrimp and such is referred to as surimi- basically ground up other fish and stuff.. I've seen some made from vegetable pastes and flavored.   Usually not so good.. 

;)

Question: Why is it sometimes hard to find something that is right in front of our eyes.
Answer: Human eyes are way better at detecting moving objects than resting ones. Plus, a change in perspective may present the object in a better contrast/less obscured by other objects.

Question: Why doesn't the body produce oil like the face does?
Answer: Actually your entire body produces the oil, but since your face is usually dryer (being in the sun for example) those glands work harder, not to mention think of how much you touch your face throughout the day, transferring more oil. Sometimes, certain foods etc will kick the sebaceous glands into overdrive, that's how acne happens. And acne can indeed happen anywhere - ever seen back acne?

Question: Dash cameras in Asia?
Answer: Yeah, a lot of cars have dash cams which record the last 5 minutes, continually recording and saving whilst deleting anything older than 5 minutes old. When an accident occurs, the camera can either automatically detect something has gone wrong and continue recording beyond the 5 minute limit, or can be manually told to do so. This makes it a lot easier if the accident gets into court and it isn't immediately obvious whose "fault" the accident was.

Question: Why do some people get brain freeze?
Answer: As long as it doesn't touch the roof of your mouth, you won't get brain freeze.

Question: Why is second day chili better?
Answer: The acids in tomatoes, peppers, and onions take time to break down carbohydrates (beans) and proteins (meat).  So overnight the beans and meat absorb more of the delicious spicy flavor.

Question: How does the _URL_0_ door knocking audio clip do such a good job of making it sound like the audio doesn't come from your headphones?
Answer: Ha, had the speakers on when I played that audio clip and the cat **freaked** out. Apparently that knock knock fools animals into thinking someone's at the front door too.

Your brain determines the location of a sound's source by a few different factors. Namely, distortion differences between each ear, and delay in which ear hears the sound first. Technology has gotten good enough that with proper equipment it can re-create those effects and trick your brain. We usually use the term "binaural" as in "Two ear" to describe the effect.

One of the most famous examples of binaurual audio is the "Virtual haircut" clip _URL_1_ where they demo a technology designed to create the effect. Lots of ASMR artists and other people do it too, one popular device these days is [a 3Dio twin mic setup such as this](_URL_0_). With two microphones and extremely accurate recreation of the human ear shape (it affects how sound bounces about), you can recreate a whole room's soundscape effectively.

Question: Computer/TV Screen Size Pricing
Answer: Easier, yes, in the sense that the assembly requires less pricise equipment.  Not necessarily cheaper, though, because of the material costs.

Question: If you have no sense of taste can you feel the heat/spiciness from something like a pepper?
Answer: Yes. Capsaicin (the chemical responsible for the spiciness of peppers), interacts with neurons, not taste receptor (although taste receptors are similar to very specialized neurons) so they would still feel the heat

Question: Why can we only use ~0.35 volts of batteries?
Answer: The notion that voltage and capacity are the same thing is where you've gone wrong.  A battery will supply a certain amount of energy (usually measured in milliamp-hours^* ) over it's lifetime.  But it will maintain roughly that 1.5V starting voltage for ~90% of that life.  Only as it begins to die will the voltage drop.  So while it seems to you that the voltage tells you how much capacity is left in the battery, that's not really the case.  And what you're defining as "dead", let's remember, is just that the voltage has dropped below a useful level for the device you're trying to power.

* - Strictly speaking milliamp-hours aren't units of energy, but it's assumed that current is run over the standard voltage of the battery which in your case is 1.5V.  By convention, all battery capacities are measured in this way.

Question: Why do people think Yellowstone will explode and destroy the earth, but not worry about Hawaii's volcano eruption?
Answer: Imagine you're filling water balloons.

One of them has a hole that lets out the water about as fast as you are filling it. You could stand there all day and be fine. That's how Kilauea erupts.

The other one is huge. It is also intact. Eventually, it will burst and soak you. That would be a Yellowstone eruption.


Obligatory edit:
Thanks /u/arcmokuro for my first gilding. I didn't expect the classic water balloon analogy to blow up like this.

Question: How does cutting down trees to plant other vegetation for the purpose of cultivation (such as avocado farming) contribute to global warming?
Answer: When you cut down highly developed forests to replace them with cultivated land you're seriously lowering the amount of CO2 that can be absorbed.

A big tree that is several decades old will take in WAY more CO2 than several seedlings that are planted to replace it. Additionally, all of the undergrowth that is in forests absorbs CO2 but that is all removed for farming.

Further, a lot of the time what's done is called "slash and burn" which means that the forests are chopped down and the debris is cleared away via a controlled fire, once again adding CO2 (and other harmful chemicals) to the atmosphere.

Also, removing well established plants will significantly increase soil erosion and while that may not directly contribute to global warming, it certainly is detrimental to the environment.

Question: Mattress Sizes?
Answer: It's called twin because a long time ago you bought two of them, one for each person in a husband/wife partnership.  You only slept together to make babies, you sinners!  Then along came the Full which was meant for two people (though no room to move!).   Queen was a luxury: they added 6" in width and 5" in length to a full so you could damn well sin all night!   A king??   You heathens now get the length of a queen but add 16" to the width.  You could have devil-orgies in those things (which is why I sleep in a king).

Question: What happens to Lactose when ingested by Lactose-Intolerants?
Answer: So, from what I've understood in the past, people who are lactose-intolerant aren't able to break down lactose. Their body doesn't produce enough lactase, which is an enzyme that breaks down lactose. So, depending on how much lactose is taken in, it usually is broken down by bacteria instead in the gut. This causes a bunch of side effects like, nausea, bloating, gas, and stomach cramps.

Question: If Helicopters need tail rotors to stabilize themselves from spinning, how can turboprop airplanes have only one rotor and not spin in circles?
Answer: On a helicopter the main rotor blades are the wings, a plane has fixed wings that use the air to resist the torque of the prop that's trying to make the plane roll (this is also why single prop driven planes roll to one side faster than they can to the other)

Question: What is the difference between an air-conditioner and a "marine" air conditioner (commonly used on boats)?
Answer: Caveat - I mess with boats but I'm not expert or pro. In general marine equipment is made with more corrosion resistant materials,such as stainless steel. The A/C on my boat exchanges the heat in the cabin air into water that flows through the other side of the heat pump, so this is an air/water heat pump where most home units are air/air heat pumps.
Also some or most marine units are 12 Volt DC power, possibly also 24 volt. I think some few are powered directly off the engine via a 'fan belt'.

The reefer on my boat is three way power - 120 VAC, 12 VDC, and propane. I suppose this would be possible in A/C but I've ever heard of this.

Question: Why do people bother keeping savings in banks/currencies which are potentially unstable?
Answer: I see two reasons:

1. In most European countries you need a residence permit to open a bank account. In other words, you must live in the country where you want the bank account. Some countries, like Switzerland, allow foreigners to open bank accounts without a permit. However, the banking fees are high for such customers ( > 800$ per year). Unless people have substantial amounts of money ( > 100,000$) the fees will  erase their savings. As it happens, many people in Ukraine are not very wealthy.

2. It is difficult. You need to go abroad, speak a foreign language, spend significant amount of time and money. Most don't bother.

Question: Why does water freeze from top to bottom? Deep in the ocean it’s below freezing, why doesn’t it freeze?
Answer: There are several reasons. The salt in the ocean lowers the temperature needed to make it freeze. Currents stop the ice from bonding, and if Ice did freeze, it is less dense and floats. But the main reason is the pressure, especially in deep water. To freeze, water needs to expand. Deep in the ocean, the pressure from the water stops it from being able to expand.

Question: how they catch digital pirates who use hotspots or do they?
Answer: Normally, They don't. If they actually want to track down someone who is using a proxy, they will be able to; but for something as harmless as pirating(relative to say, hacking a company's system) it is not worth their time and money just to find out who you are.

Torrents from a hotspot are also not easy to trace back to the user, unless they have a way of identifying you(e.g you're at a hotel, and their internet asks for your room number). A lot of hotspot providers would(atleast in theory) attempt to prevent people from torrenting on their networks, otherwise, they do run the risk of being accused of illegal downloads. I'm not too sure of exactly how the copyright law side of things work though.

Off the top of my head, i can remember atleast one case where a guy using mcdonald's internet was arrested for spreading computer viruses, based of the fact that he used his credit card at the store and they had somehow managed to find out exactly which computer was responsible, however, for pirating purposes, its not worth the trouble.

Question: The voting rights of citizens in the District of Columbia historically differ from the rights of citizens in each of the 50 U.S. states. Why can't the U.S. just add an amendment to fix that right now?
Answer: Because politics quickly becomes political.  Currently D.C. is extremely Democratic, so Republicans don't want 2 new Democratic Senators.  If the situation was reversed it's likely that the sides would quickly flip and Democrats would be blocking the amendment.

Question: Why did it take so long to invent the printing press?
Answer: Tske into consideration the literacy rate.

Most people could not read and had no reason to.

Necessity is the mother of invention, that is a true idiom.

There wasn't a need for it.

As was stated, the Chinese invented movable type a few centuries before Europe.

But we did have related items. The Romans had stamps wood blocks, which it technically the basics of the press. They just didn't need it in mass numbers.

Question: I've been reading up on nukes. Did the Nevada nuclear tests have nuclear winter? Why or why not?
Answer: Nuclear Winter is not a local effect resulting from an atomic blast, but rather a hypothetical effect from lots of nukes going off.  The theory is that the nukes would kick a lot of soot and dust up in to the air, blocking out the sun.  The blocking out of the sun would result in lower temperatures since the sun can't heat up as much of the Earth anymore.

Some of the effects are based on similar effects felt when a large volcano goes off.  Mt. Pinatubo in the Philippines went off in the early 90's and we only saw a slight drop in temperature (1 degree F).

Question: How come cars are able to go up to 220 km/h but highways only allow speeds of up to 110 km/h. Wouldn't it be wiser to have cars max out at 110 km/h-ish and reduce the engine capabilities?
Answer: How long do you want to take to accelerate? Merging onto the highway in a reasonable time takes far more power than maintaining a constant speed. There are plenty of 1.0 l cars for sale in Europe. They take about 17 +/- seconds to reach 100 kph, but they are very fuel efficient. No one would buy them here in the US because it would be frankly frightening to try to merge onto our freeways in a car that slow.

Question: Is it ever possible in the future to have matching finger/thumbprints?
Answer: The idea that everyone has a unique fingerprint isnt really scientifically proven. There is a real possibility that you and someone else currently living have identical fingerprints.

Question: How a military can overthrow a government?
Answer: The people with the guns stop doing what the president says, and they use their guns to do what they want.  That's basically how it goes.

Question: How do we go from binary codes to basic programming languages?
Answer: The lowest level instructions in a computer are the instructions of the CPU architecture. This varies between CPUs but there's two main ones currently: x86 used by Intel and AMD processors, and the one used by ARM processors.

These instructions usually look something like "MOV 1, 2" which might mean to take the number stored in memory location 1 and copy it to memory location 2. Or you might have "ADD 1, 2, 3" which adds the two numbers at 1, 2 and puts the result in 3.

When you hear about binary being the lowest level in a computer, it's just a binary encoding of these CPU instructions. So MOV might be 001 and ADD is 010, then the memory locations are represented as binary numbers after the type of instruction. When you hear about a 32-bit or 64-bit processor, that's how many bits each CPU instruction is.

Question: why does spicy food stay spicy when it comes out the other end?
Answer: Spiciness isn't a flavor, it's a reaction to the chemical capsaicin, which irritates any tissue it contacts, not just your tongue. This is also why the area around your lips gets sore while eating wings.

Question: Why do posts on reddit not start on 0 (what's the purpose of allowing one to vote for oneself)?
Answer: To reward you for making a comment even if no one else does.

Question: if you light a lighter in front of a TV, why does the reflection show 4 tiny rainbows around the flame?
Answer: This is to do with, not the display itself, but the layers of diffusers that make up the backlight behind the display

An LCD TV consists of a backlight and an LCD panel. The backlight's job is to produce an even spread of light across the display. You first have an array of LEDs, but those LEDs are point sources, and you don't want lots of bright dots. So the light has to be spread out. They do this with sheets of plastic etched with fine lines. These lines bend the light and spread it out - but only in one direction. If you only had one of these sheets, you'd have an array of lines, one for each LED. So instead they use many sheets, each sheet with lines at an angle to the one beneath. With enough of them, the light is spread evenly.

It is these fine lines etched into plastic that produces those rainbows. Each line reflects the light of your lighter when the angle is right. You get a spot of light from each line, which makes a line of light stretching away from the reflection of the lighter. But the lines are close enough that you get interference - as the angle increases, the distance the light has to travel between scratches increases, and you find places where, for one color of light, the distance the light travels is exactly one-half wavelength, so the peaks of the light waves line up with the troughs, and cancel out. When you cancel out one color of light, then you only see the other colors.

This is the same effect that gives CDs and DVDs their rainbow appearance.

And this explanation is way too long.

Question: How does copyright work with references?
Answer: US copyright has a Fair Use clause, which a minor reference like the ones you are mentioning fall under. You don't need to pay royalties for something like mentioning "I saw something like this on Star Trek once!" or "This is like Episode 79 of the Original Series, Turnabout Intruder! They got bodyswapped!" 

As to when you cross the line of fair use, that's subjective and really you have to use your best judgment. 

_URL_0_ has more info.

Question: Why does China take claim to Taiwan?
Answer: Before the 1930's the Island of Taiwan was part of the nation of China. During the 1930's China suffered a civil war with many factions, the most prominent of which were the communist party(CPC) and the Government(KMT). This civil war spanned world war 2 and reached a physical conclusion in 1950 when the Communist party physically wrested control of the mainland. The KMT retreated to the Island of Taiwan and has remained there in exile ever since.

The big issue about sovereignty comes down to the United Nations. As one of the main victorious nations of World War 2, China was granted a seat on the UN permanent security council, alongside the USA, UK, France and USSR. However this seat was granted to the KMT government, not the Communist party of China. So when the KMT were exiled, they still retained the official recognition in the UN as the official government of China.

The communist party however, having established pretty total control over the entire mainland, considered themselves the rightful leaders of China, including the Island of Taiwan that the exiled KMT government now resided on. The US government was initially disinterested until the Korean war came along, and they realised that they needed a card to play against the communist chinese, so sent the 7th fleet to help protect Taiwan.

This stalemate continued until 1971 when Communist China was given the UNPSC seat instead of the exiled Taiwanese government under UN resolution 2758. Since then most nations have adopted the attitude that Taiwan is technically officially part of communist China while also treating Taiwan as its own nation in everything but name. As CGP grey once put it, "The united states sometimes sends aircraft carriers to protect one part of china from another part of china".

I hope this ELI5 is insightful, the Taiwanese situation is a very complex one from a political and cultural one, and is a major part of 20th century history.

Question: Why is the word 'cunt' such a taboo word in the U.S.?
Answer: People have made it so.  Words can be given such power based on how they're used in the culture.  I remember when Austin Powers 2 came out (it was called Austin Powers 2: The Spy Who Shagged Me), and that was seen as quite vulgar for British people.   In the US, Shagged is a cute word (like using Poop in place of the word Shit).  Just remember that it is how it is taken, not how it is intended.  You could be using cunt like the Aussies do in friendly conversation (referring to their friends), but someone who isn't used to hearing that can still take offense to it.

Question: why is it so easy for people to start working out regularly but it’s hard to stop eating certain foods or cutting back?
Answer: Human being are designed to eat as much food as they possibly can, because in nature food is a whole lot rarer. We crave salt, fat, and sugar. This is a problem today because we have industrial farming and society. When he had to hunt down all out food ourselves it was a lot harder to eat enough to actually.make us fat. But now that all we have to do is take a trip to the grocery store and pick up a 4 lb bag of M & Ms, it's easy to be fat. We

Question: Why is the USA drinking age set at 21 when in most other respects you're an adult at 18.
Answer: In the 60s and 70s, the US had a **lot** of fatalities as a result of teenage drunk driving. Waaay more than any other country did.

Really, there were two options available to them: raise the drinking age, or raise the driving age.

I think they made the right choice.

Question: Why do I not smell perfume I've sprayed on me but other people do?
Answer: Why don't you see your nose?  It's within your vision.

Your brain filters out your nose, because it's always there, and likewise, it filters out smells that are "always there".  

The phenomenon is called [sensory adaptation](_URL_0_), this is the brain caring less about constant stimuli.  Olfactory neurons also fire less frequently.

Question: How does a two headed reptile/siamese twins work? How do they move their bodies assuming there are two brains?
Answer: Typically each twin controls a different part of the body. Like the twin girls Brittany and Abigail Hensel. They give the appearance of being one body with two heads, though they have two of each organ above the waist. They have two arms, each controlling one. And from the waist down, they have one body, with each controlling one half. So each controls a leg, for example. There doesn't appear to be any part that both of their brains controls. So they coordinate with each other so that they can walk, but they each have their own body parts they use. In some cases of animals with two heads, only one head "works". The other head doesn't seem to have any reactions to stimuli so it's vestigial.

Question: How do human voices work? What makes our voices seem so unique?
Answer: Finally a question that being a voice major has equipped me to answer!  (Avoiding the proper terms for parts because that's what Google is for):

Air passes from your lungs in between your vocal folds (roughly right behind your Adam's apple, that's a front projection of the mechanism that protects it).  They're quite tiny and produce a tiny sound.  Cartilage around them can manipulate/stretch them to make them thinner (higher sound) or thicker (lower sound).  That small bit of sound that they make while vibrating is amplified by the natural cavities in your head:  your throat, your mouth, and your sinuses.  The way that you manipulate those cavities (especially the mouth) produces the other qualities to the sound, such as the volume, nasality, and very importantly, sounding like different vowels or voiced consonants.  Some consonants are produced with only air (for example, "s").  

I would assume the reason why everything we say sounds different from other types of sound is that we train ourselves constantly from an early age to pay attention and sort patterns out of speech sounds versus other types of sound.

Question: why aren't AK47's an "accurate" rifle
Answer: 1. AK-47's distance between the sight and post is very short which makes it so that for longer ranges, it is extremely difficult to line up an accurate shot as you are more likely to be misaligned with your eye to the sights.

2. It uses a relatively low velocity round, meaning it arcs more and spends more time to get to the target, making it deviate more from environmental conditions

3. Its feeding mechanism uses very large and heavy moving parts which reduces accuracy dramatically from recoil.

4. It has a more significant recoil upon firing due to its type of ammunition, making subsequent rounds less accurate.

5. It operates on a lot looser tolerances, while making it more reliable, also reduces its overall accuracy.

6. [Its gun barrel flexes more than other guns during recoil.](_URL_1_) 
Compare that with [this](_URL_2_), Or [this](_URL_0_)

7. The barrel isn't inline with the stock, making recoils want to push the gun upwards.

Question: Why can I not remember what happens when I'm drunk?
Answer: Memories enter the brain first as short term memory, that is then transformed into a long-term memory.  
This is evident because the majority of short-term memories that we experience are lost before they ever make it into what we will call "long-term" storage. 

When alcohol is consumed it affects your ability to take short-term memories and transform them into long-term memories. 

This is why you only may remember small bits and pieces of the night, these are the select short-term memories that were allowed to settle into long-term ones without the interruption of alcohol. As the level of alcohol drops, the number of memories that make it into "long-term' storage increases.

Question: Why does having noise in the background (TV, music, etc.) make me feel safer when I'm home alone?
Answer: Your ears are sensitive through a wide ride of volumes.  When it is very quiet, you hear faint noises you are unaccustomed to, which can be disconcerting.  Background noise hides those sounds with ones more familiar to you, restoring your comfort level.

Question: Isn't the freshwater we have to work with just going in a cycle? How are we losing fresh water?
Answer: When the water ends up in the oceans, it slows down the cycling a lot.  Water in aquifers (the stores under the ground that we access when we use wells) and water on Earth's surface are the cheapest to use.  We have been either polluting these (surface) or using them too fast for new water to filter in.  We have also allowed a lot of water to go to the ocean(storm water runoff from developed areas) , rather than slowly go into the aquifers through the ground. So the result is we are using aquifer water faster than they are getting refilled.  When that water is depleted, all water will become more expensive. We will still have it, but it will either be salty, polluted, or far from where it needs to be, and all of the fixes for this cost money.
Sorry if this isn't too coherent, I haven't finished my first cup of coffee for the day.

Question: Why is there such a large Insane Clown Posse (Juggalo) following?
Answer: A lot of it is because the group tries to make its fans into a "community" (Juggalos). Like, fans of a band like, say, the Black Keys, are just people who happen to like the Black Keys. But ICP specifically encourages fans, "Hey, dress up like us, be like us, be part of something," and then the fans encourage each other to do it too. People like that. They like feeling like they're part of a group. It's the same kind of thing with Lady Gaga and her "Little Monsters," just a different type of music.

Question: What's the best/safest/quickest way for a relatively skinny but unhealthy guy to get big using weights (w/ or w/o protein powder)?
Answer: The gist of it is to lift weights and eat a **lot** of food. A program like Stronglifts is great for beginners. 

Protein powder isn't magic, it's just a cheap and easy source of protein. Most people find it easier to drink a protein shake than to eat a bunch of steak. It's probably healthier than other sources of protein because of the amino acids it contains, specifically L-cysteine. You should definitely use it.

Question: Why metal at room temperature feels cold while, say, fabric at room temperature doesn't
Answer: I believe it has something to do with the rate at which heat from your body is transferred to the material.  Your body is hotter than both the fabric and the spoon, which are at the same temperature, but the spoon conducts the heat at a faster rate and so you feel it as being colder.  Please correct me if I am wrong or missing some details.

Question: A neighborhood cat comes to your home and you feed it. A day/week later, other cats appear at your house looking for food. How did the other cats find out that you're a food giver?
Answer: Kitties talk among themselves, just like humans. They may not make a sound, but they do communicate ... and follow each other around.

Seriously: you can/should check out [Alley Cat Allies](_URL_0_) for all sorts of info about hungry kitty visitors.

Question: Why do southern states freak out over a little snow?
Answer: There is essentially no infrastructure to deal with snowfall in southern states because it happens so rarely. Roads are not salted or plowed so they are covered in ice, and nobody has snow tires or much experience driving in snow. It is sort of like how everyone up north has trouble with a little heat wave where it gets over 100 F; nobody has A/C and are not acclimated to heat so it is a problem.

Question: What is the origin and meaning of "Strange women lying in ponds distributing swords is no basis for a system of government."
Answer: It's a quote from Monty Python and the Holy Grail. The "strange woman lying in pond" is the Lady of the Lake from the Arthurian legend.

_URL_0_

Question: What are those bastardly little tongue sores you get from eating too much salt or sugar, and how do you get rid of them?
Answer: The condition is called aphthous stomatitis, or commonly, canker sores. They are NOT inflamed tastebuds. Rather, they are small ulcers (areas of inflamed, healing tissue) that are characteristically painful and confined to the mucosa (soft tissue) of the mouth (including surface of the tongue) by definition. There is no cure, but many over-the-counter drugs are sold that can mitigate the pain caused by them.

This question is by no means explained (moderators, hello?). Rather, the pathogenesis (how it develops) of an aphthous sore is still unknown. I couldn't believe it, but apparently this is an area of relatively active research. [This](_URL_1_) recent review article provides some nice context.

[This question](_URL_0_) has been asked many times before. Doing a quick look-over, answers have been repeatedly unscientific and certainly not in any real laymen-speak.

Question: Why are swearing words related to genitals and/or sexuality?
Answer: Swear words come from things we consider taboo or distasteful. In English-speaking society, we have a lot of taboos surrounding sex, even in this day and age. We also put a very high level of importance on hygiene, so words relating to waste and where they come from are also taboo. 

Certain words automatically make your brain think of a subject in a more intense way than others. A colloquial term vs a scientific one. This is true for pretty much anything, even if it isn't a swearword -- sweat vs perspiration, for example. When it's a topic that's taboo, that word becomes a swear. When it isn't, it moves back into innocuous territory.

Question: How does a bird know to not sit on its unfertilized eggs?
Answer: They don't...They will sit on plastic eggs.  The hen eventually gives up and deserts the nest and will try again...Yeah,the eggs rot if something like a squirrel, or another bird does not eat them before they go bad.

_URL_0_

Question: Why does Basic Income Decrease "Werkgelegenheid" and is this the same metric as "Job Opportunities"?
Answer: >  isn't employment rate supposed to reflect how many people are voluntarily employed compared to unvoluntarily employed?

If you consider those who need the money to live but if they didn't wouldn't work as "involuntarily employed" and not part of the employment rate, then your employment pool would be near zero and almost everyone working would be involuntarily employed.

The employment rate is a measure of how many people who are trying to find work can find work. This isn't perfect because maybe if unemployment is high some people stop looking, but it at least weeds out those who could never be employed by available jobs.

If more people feel they need to work in order to have a comfortable income for their family unit then your labor pool expands. If you make sitting at home more viable for collecting income then your labor pool can be expected to shrink.

 >  So, by that account, that means that between 1945 and 1960 employment rates were judged by how many first earners were employed. And now, they seem to be judged by how many first as well as second earners are employed. 

Women aren't "second-earners", Jesus Christ that is sexist. If you have a woman and a man earning in a family then you just have two earners and perhaps they could get by with one or the other income. Neither needs to be primary and secondary.

 >  Wouldn't that just mean that the involuntarily unemployed has more, rather than less job opportunities? Wouldn't that reduce the pressure on the labor market?

More people working means the labor market has more to choose from. But it isn't like you can just double up on the labor market from both sides, squeezing the supply of labor to raise wages to secure labor and also taxing them to support basic income to nonworkers. Prices will skyrocket and foreign investment will plummet.

We don't even have to do crazy math or speculate about how these tendencies will balance out in the end. There is a basic principle at work: People working creates value. If there are more people in your economy working to create value then there is more value to go around.

We might argue that one hypothetical economy has everyone employed at low wages and buying products at low prices, vs a second economy where only one person is employed at a ridiculously high wage while everyone else is paid a low wage through taxes, buying products at ridiculously high prices. I would argue that whatever voodoo magic you propose to make the low wage entitlements capable of purchasing the high cost products would never work, but it is difficult to prove that one way or another. What is obvious is that if everyone but the one guy is sitting around not doing work then *shit isn't getting done*.

Question: How does Task Manager's "Set Priority" work, does it increase performance significantly, and how/should I use it?
Answer: Windows is built for multitasking. The 'Set Priority' feature is intended for managing what processes have a higher priority for resources (CPU) than other processes.

Applications set to normal will go 50-50 on the resources with other running applications (when demanding resources).

It's better practice to close all resource demanding background applications while using another resource demanding application.

If your CPU is a bottleneck in gaming, setting the game process to 'High' may help. Though if nothing in the background is demanding a lot of resources while playing, you probably won't notice a difference. Do not use 'Realtime' as it could starve out other critical system processes and stop responding to input.

--------------

Since there is apparently a lot of 5 year olds in this thread:

Imagine you have a lego set with a limited number of legos. You want to build 3 separate objects but there aren't enough lego pieces for all 3. So you determine that **1** of the objects will get **High** priority over the other ones and get as many lego pieces it needs (as long as it needs less than the total amount of lego pieces). The other **2** lego objects you decide are **Normal** priority and will split the remaining lego pieces half-and-half. 

The **2 Normal** priority lego objects don't get enough lego pieces to be fully functional, but the **1 High** priority lego object does.

Now, if you didn't have enough lego pieces for even the **1 High** priority lego object, it too would be incomplete and not fully functional.

-----------------

* Lego objects = Applications
* Your priority determination = Windows
* Lego pieces = CPU resources

Question: the Venezuelan election results
Answer: Not the exact answer you're looking for, but might provide context if you'd like it - _URL_0_

Question: How can Pewdipie make $4M a year?
Answer: Most of his money would come from Youtube views and advertising. Having as many views as Pewdipie gets would certainly net you a lot of money from Youtube.

Question: Where exactly is a woman's G-spot located, and how do you find it?
Answer: Straight in, stick to the top, two o clock (yes always) until about the second bend in your fingers, if you've hit your knuckles that's way too far. It all generally feels the same to you but it has sort of an interesting texture. So I know perhaps you've always been told to do the "Come here" motion but it's actually okay to be a little bit rougher than that, nearly all the nerves are located outside and in the clitoris. So use your dominant hand for entry and place the other hand palm down thumb towards you, gently but firmly across the lower pelvis. Use your two fingers with dominant hand to move entire fore arm in a controlled vibration sort of motion. Check with female on pressure and intensity. Use clitoral stimulation at your discretion. Hope that makes sense!

Question: Why do we hear static from radios and TV's when there's nothing being broadcast? Shouldn't we just hear silence?
Answer: Because there isn't nothing there.

Every spectrum is full of random noise from stars, radioactive decay, all sorts of things like that.  It's just terrestrial broadcasts are so much stronger that it overwhelms the random noise.  This is why when you start reaching the edge of the coverage area for the station you're listening to, it starts getting more and more static-ey and doesn't just go from "fine" to "nothing."

Question: why you can't put metal in the microwave but nothing happens to the metal that it's built from
Answer: You can put metal in microwaves, which is a lot come with racks, you just can't put metal with sharp edges/points such as forks and aluminum foil. As for the interior, most microwaves have their interior painted to prevent these issues.

Question: How do street lights know when cars are there?
Answer: There's a couple ways that traffic lights know there are cars there.  

The first (and probably most common) is sensors under the road.  They use coils of wire to detect when something magnetic (like the steel in a car) passes overhead.  You can actually usually see them if you look at the lanes, there will sometimes be a 4ish by 6ish square that's visible from the surface.

Other traffic lights use cameras to actually detect cars with image recognition, but there are still pretty rare and are generally put in to do double-duty as red-light cameras or traffic monitoring.

There's a few around that use infrared motion detectors (like motion lights or supermarket doors) but I actually haven't seen any in a while, they might be phased out.

As far as the boxes on top (and this is a guess) it may be part of a system emergency vehicles use.  In some cities, emergency vehicles emit an infrared signal (like a remote control does) straight forward when they have their sirens on which will tell the light to turn that way green and all others red.

Question: Why do people age?
Answer: Nothing is perfect. Even our bodies, the result of billions of years of evolution from the simplest single-celled life forms, begin to fail after awhile. All of the things that make our body run, our stomachs, hearts, brains, kidneys, will eventually stop working. But the main thing that causes people to age is their own DNA. All DNA has little bits on the end of it called telomeres. Every time DNA is copied (this happens every time cells divide) the telomeres get shorter and shorter. The good thing is that telomeres don't have anything important in them, so it's ok. But after the telomeres are gone, the important parts of the DNA start getting lost. This causes many bodily functions to slowly stop working like they are supposed to, and eventually stop working at all.

Question: The size of the universe.
Answer: There's more than one way to measure cosmological distances.

One way is to use what's called the "lookback distance." It's just the distance measured in units of time. If light from an galaxy has been in transit for a billion years, then you can quite accurately say that galaxy is a billion years away. (This is sometimes phrased as a billion *light years* for sake of clarity.)

The other way to measure distances is to imagine that you could somehow magically stop time and stretch a very long ruler across the distance you're measuring. This is called the *instantaneous proper distance.* It's used much less often, because it's not a *useful* number to calculate. You *can't* stop time or stretch a ruler across those kinds of distances, so the number you get from that kind of calculation is really only a particularly obscure type of trivia.

So the radius of the observable universe is both about 14 billion years and about 46 billion light-years. Both statements are equally true.

We know the age of the universe because we can look at the temperature of the sky and see how much it's cooled since the end of the Big Bang, and we can look at the rate of metric expansion and see how it relates to pressure.

And you're thinking of metric expansion quite wrongly. It's not that there's a wall out there that's moving away from us. It's that *all distances in the universe* vary with time. Not because things move, but because the *geometry of the universe* is itself a function of time. Right now, it's estimated with quite a high degree of precision that all distances in the universe are increasing at about seventy kilometers per second per megaparsec.

Question: Why do school hours not match working hours?
Answer: That means teachers would go home at 7 or 8pm, school buses would have to contend with commuter traffic, and students would be walking home in the dark most of the time.

Question: Why do dogs go absolutely crazy after getting a bath?
Answer: I'll probably get another NO BLATANT SPECULATION response from the wannabe mod we have lurking here, but here's what I've found looking around for you: **Nobody actually 100% knows the scientific reason, but dog experts have been able to put together some good guesses based on what we know about dogs.**  Many of them have actually been listed here, but I'll put them all together in one place for you:)

Part one of the theory is that the dog simply feels SO much better once they've been washed.  Not only are they clean, they also had to sit still like a good boy/girl for SO LONG while they got cleaned and now they've been set free again!

The reason why they often roll around or drag their heads on the ground (my dog does this - we call it the "lawnmower") could be two reasons.  One, they're wet and they want to get dry.  Shaking removes a huge amount of the water, but not all of it - Especially in their ears.  It probably feels weird and they're trying to get it the heck out!  The other reason is that they likely don't like smelling like "not a dog" (with all the shampoo).  Dogs rely on their sense of smell WAY more than we do.  And all that shampoo is probably very distracting!  Rolling around may likely be them trying to get their smell back to neutral.

And of course, if you associate games or fun activities with post-bathtime (my dogs LOVE being dried off with a towel), that likely makes them really excited too!:D

EDIT: Sources: _URL_0_
_URL_1_

I can find more if these aren't good enough for the people posting snark rather than real answers.

Question: What was the warsaw uprising
Answer: Warsaw was under Nazi rule. People didn't like that, especially the Jews living in the ghetto. People were purposely starved, killed in the streets. The Polish Underground State was formed - a resistance paramilitary which was made of several groups that wanted to liberate Poland (and save Jews). 

Some folks with radios learned that the Red Army was coming. And the Reds hate the Nazis. And the Polish Resistance thought "Hey! If we fight the Nazis from within - and the Reds help out - we'll totally fuck the Nazi shit up!" 

The Resistance started fighting - but the Red Army never came to help them. Those dudes camped outside the city. The Poles fought the Nazis for two months, much of the city was in ashes, and Churchill was all like "HEY STALIN, COME HELP OUR POLISH ALLIES!" and Stalin was kinda like, "I don't want to risk my dudes quite yet.."

That's the Warsaw Uprising.

Question: How did the Romans express numbers in speech and/or calculation?
Answer: This is a really good question, you should probably chuck it over onto /r/AskHistorians, they'd be more likely to have an actual, factual answer.

EDIT: Someone has already asked it over there, the best answer last year came from /u/rosemary85 and goes as follows:
 >  No. The Latin words for numbers are fairly similar to those in modern Romance languages (unus, duo, tres, quattuor, quinque, sex, septem, octo, novem, decem, etc).
The Latin for 94 is quattuor et nonaginta, literally "four and ninety", or alternatively nonaginta et quattuor.
The exceptions are that the Latin for 18 and 19 are duodeviginti and undeviginti, literally "twenty minus two" and "twenty minus one". But as you can see, this has nothing at all to do with how the numerals were written.
I should perhaps note that the Romans very often wrote IIII and VIIII rather than IV and IX for "four" and "nine", XXXX rather than XL for "forty", etc. I don't have statistics at my fingertips, but I believe the IIII/XXXX forms were actually more common than the IV/XL forms that are preferred nowadays.

[See here for the rest of the comments.](_URL_0_)

Question: What's the difference between Genetic Drift and Natural Selection?
Answer: Both of these concepts deal with traits within a population changing over time.  With natural selection, one trait is more advantageous, so organisms with that trait survive and reproduce more effectively, resulting in more organisms with that trait.  Genetic drift is when a trait becomes more common within a population due to luck.  

For example, pretend we have a group of humans and some of them possess a genetic code that gives them green hair.  If green hair is considered attractive, then those with the trait will be able to mate more and have more children.  This is a benefit resulting from the trait being preferred.  This means that nature selects positively for this trait and it is supported by natural selection.  

On the other hand, let's again pretend that there's a trait for green hair but nobody finds it particularly attractive or unattractive.  Logically, there's no reason why it should become particularly popular or unpopular.  However, one day, a bunch of brown-haired people gather for a meeting in a building that catches on fire and they all die, while the green-haired people outside are unharmed.  This event makes green hair more prominent within the population but it wasn't a direct result of any properties related to green hair.  Since this was green hair becoming more common as a result of random events, this would be considered an example of genetic drift.

TL;DR: Natural selection means the trait itself is beneficial, making it more popular.  Genetic drift is when a trait just happens to become more popular, even though there's nothing advantageous about the trait.

Question: Why do professional athletes have a significantly lower pulse than the average person ?
Answer: Because they have increased stroke volume. Their hearts are strengthened so that they are able to move more blood with each pump, so their hearts don't need to pump as many times.

Question: Pirate Bay Megathread
Answer: Pirate Bay's existence is NOT the result of a want for piracy. This is the misconception that has the industry execs spending HUGE amounts of time and money trying to control the symptom of a much larger issue.

   People, like water, follow the path of least resistance. If the resistance becomes too much, we make a new path. Napster, Limewire, Bearshare, were all birthed as an affront to the system that made you spend $22.99 on a CD that had two songs on it you wanted to hear. Want to hear good indie bands? Tough shit. You get to chug the corporate swill and be happy to pay for it. Filesharing allowed people to get select songs from select albums quickly and conveniently. No more slogging through Best Buy.

   "But Lobsterbib, surely the attraction to pirated music was driven by how free it was?" Nope. iTunes is proof that cost of music isn't the deciding factor in piracy. Convenience is king. People will pay for anything so long as they can get it instantly. Ticketmaster thrives on this fact alone. We'd pay the Devil himself if it meant we could get Emma Watson delivered.

   If the industry could spend the same effort on combining their IPs into a singular venue that peeps could pay for and receive instantly, Piratebay would see its traffic PLUMMET. Wanna see crime drop? Legalize and regulate drugs. Want to see piracy drop? Make it easier to get content for fuck sake.

   The other night I wanted to show my GF The Neverending Story. Turns out, no one is streaming it. All the video stores have closed so I'd have to drive all the way to Wal-Hitler to buy a $9.99 DVD in 4:3 ratio. Great way to spend an evening, amirite? I would PAY to see the movie if it were there! Get off your asses and let me give you my money!

  So, until the elephant in the room is addressed, don't be surprised that it's pirating every episode of 30 Rock while you try to smash its wireless router.

Question: How, with the proliferation of free porn websites like youporn, does any porn production make money?
Answer: You like pink crayons a lot. There is this place where you can get free pink crayons, but you have to deal with ads and possibly malware. Also the pink crayons are low quality and the place may not have the specific type or model of pink crayon you are looking for. Now there is this other place where if you pay a bit you get the newest, best pink crayons that you choose as soon as they come out without ever dealing with ads or any other hassle. To some its worth paying for, for others the free place works.

Question: How do landlords make money
Answer: so essentially making money from letting requires a large amount of time and/or starting capital?

Question: Why do DVDs in widescreen format play with black bars on top and bottom on my widescreen TV
Answer: Just because it's "widescreen" doesn't mean that it's the same exact aspect ratio as your TV. A movie with black bars on the top and bottom was filmed in an aspect ration that's even wider than your widescreen TV.


Look [here](_URL_1_).  Most widescreen TV's are 16:9 (the third from the bottom on that page), and many movies are filmed in 2.39:1 (the one on the very bottom).  Clearly, you cannot shrink the bottom one to fit on a 16:9 screen without having bars at the top and bottom with no picture.  Well, you can if you can tolerate a distorted, squished picture.  Another option is to use [Pan and Scan](_URL_0_), which gets rid of the black bars at the expense of cutting off the sides of the picture.

Question: How do spammers spoof a cell phone number to make scam calls?
Answer: When you make an outbound call, the calling system gives the phone system the caller ID information. The reason this can be (legitimately) different from the actual call is for example a business that has both direct lines to each extension and a main line. An employee calling out would show up with the main line as their caller ID so that if the person calls back they get the main number (this way you’re not giving out the direct number unless you needed to). 

The spammers take advantage of this system to spoof a number in the caller ID. 

The phone company could counter this by comparing the caller ID info with a number you legitimately own, but they get a lot of money for all these spam calls and they’re not incentivized enough to change how they do things.

Question: How have wolves impacted Yellowstone?
Answer: This is just one example. 

More grazing animals means less vegetation for other animals to use as a home or shelter from prey.

They also took vegetation away from the river banks causing more erosion. (The roots held the soil in place)

The reintroduction of wolves stopped that and kept the grazing animal population in check, allowing the vegetation to grow back.

Question: How do we move our body?
Answer: Planning and decision making for motor movement happens in the [premotor cortex](_URL_0_).  To see where it is, find a spot on the top of your head that's about three inches back from your hairline.  This is the section in your brain that makes the decisions about lifting limbs and looking at the ceiling.  It takes in information from many parts of the brain including the senses, the emotional centers, and long term planning structures before making a decision.  When it decides, it sends a command to the [Motor Cortex](_URL_1_) which is just a bit closer to the back of the head.  The Motor Cortex is a doer.  It takes the big decision made by the Pre-Motor Cortex and figures out how to implement it.  "Move your leg!" says the PMC, and the MC calculates what muscles in what order need to be fired.  If it's a movement that's been done to the point of being automatic (like walking or tying shoelaces) then the MC relies some on the Cerebellum to coordinate, as the Cerebellum stores all those highly practiced movements.

Question: What is the difference between a CEO and the President of a company?
Answer: "President" is a term that is often based on the law of the place where the company is created.  For example in the United States, most states require that a corporation have a person with the title President.  That title carries with it some legal obligations that tie the individual to the actions of the company.

Most jurisdictions don't define or require anyone to hold the title "Chief Executive Officer".  

Depending on the size of the entity, the President and the CEO may be the same person.  Large entities may be comprised of several smaller companies, each with a legally required "President", who may report to the CEO at the top of the organizational structure.

Some companies may separate the two titles for internal organizational reasons, for historical reasons, or because someone thinks it's clever.

It is rare for a company to have a CEO who reports to a President.  CEO has become the de facto title for "the highest level of the executive ladder", but that's arbitrary and fashion could change.

Question: Why does smoking cause some people to lose limbs/develop cancer while there are lifelong smokers who never have these problems?
Answer: The short answer is that at the chemical level biology is very complicated.  We tend to think of all sickness and injury the same way we think of, say, a bullet wound---a single, distinct harm that directly interferes with how something in the body works in a simple way. 

But that's not how all harms work. Nicotine and other carcinogens can cause damage in many ways and at many levels. They can harm cells, different parts of DNA, and different things in different parts of the body. And these harms might not happen every time, or from every puff, depending on random chance. 

And even when they do cause harm, it might not be enough.  Maybe person A has a stronger immune system then person B. Or maybe person B happens to be genetically more vulnerable to cancer than person A. Or maybe person A ends up getting cancer in a cell that happens to get killed the next day by a bacteria, while person B gets it in a cell that survives long enough to grow. 

There are so many variables between exposure to the toxic substance and the expression of some linked disease that even when the negative health effects are clear---as with smoking---it is almost never going to be the case that everyone will get the same injuries, or even any injury at all.

Question: Why is it, that when I get really tired, everything is so much funnier?
Answer: The phenomenon of being more easily amused falls under Emotional Lability which means emotional changeability or instability. You're probably more likely to cry too. In extreme cases, this is a medical condition, see _URL_0_ but in regular life, it's just that the parts of your brain which keep you on an even keel aren't working quite so well.

Question: Why you need to be grounded to get an electric shock?
Answer: Electric currents aren't like Austin from middle school, they don't come out, wander around, bug people, and then go back home. 

Electricity flows from negatively charged objects, to positively charged objects, until the system is neutral. That's all there is to it. If electricity flows from one location, that means that location has a negative charge, and the electricity *doesn't want to go back*. It wants to find the most positively charged location, and make it balanced. 

If the most positively charged location available is the ground, then it will happily go through you to the ground. If it is an anode, then it will do that too (which is why it's dangerous to work on electronics with two hands).

Question: How do people get infected with plaque?
Answer: Plaque isn't just one bactera it is what is known as a biofilm. Layers and layers of diferent bactera and their extracellular matrixs. Pretty much any bactera can eventually form biofilms. Everyone has bactera on and in their bodies called their natural flora. Your natural flora bactera grow into the plaque on your teeth.

Question: Why is it that a hard drive disc can have a capacity of 5TB+ but DVDs can only have a maximum of 9GB?
Answer: In addition to what's already been said about the actual technological differences, one major difference is working conditions.

Hard Disks are produced and sealed in clean factories to ensure there is no contamination. They are encased in thick unbend-able metal. From the day you start using it, you can't bend it, get it dirty, scratch it, or really abuse it in any way. The parts inside that rigid case are precisely machined to fit together and be aligned perfectly, and because you can't stick your fingers in there, they stay that way. Precision engineering.

Meanwhile DVDs and other similar disks are made from cheap soft easily scratched, easily bent plastic. In use they get coated with your filthy greasy fingerprints. They'll get scratched when you handle them, when your kids put them in the player they'll get jam and cat hair over them. You bend and distort them each time you remove them from the case, and you can put them in a huge variety of players of varying quality.

So while the hard disk can afford to store one bit of data in an incredibly tiny spot on the disk because it knows it will have the precision to address it exactly, safe from damage, dirt, and distortion, the DVD has to keep its bits of data in larger lumps so it can still be seen through your filthy fingerprints and coffee stains on your bent and scratched disk. It also keeps some parts of the disk to store checksum information (a bit like backups) to make up for those bits it still can't read.

Question: How much racism/discrimination do Europeans who live in India or Africa face?
Answer: Maybe it's not racism or discrimination in the traditional sense, but I've heard anecdotally that whites in Sub-Saharan Africa are more likely to be targeted by robbers because they stand out it's presumed that they have money.

Question: Why does a company like Boeing need to make a commercial? It's not like anyone watching is going to buy one.
Answer: Companies that have to choose between Airbus or Boeing still consist of people (who can be manipulated through commercials), and they can sadly often do so with bias even though they're supposed to run the numbers and make an informed decision.

Question: How do American football have bruised lungs without also having broken ribs? Isn't that the point of ribs?
Answer: This is actually one of the major issues with American football.  The padding protects from the blunt hit and spreads out the impact so you aren't taking a lot of force to a particular place on your body, but your body is still being shoved really hard as a whole.  This means the force is spread out and absorbed a bit so your skeleton isn't taking such a direct impact, but since a body at rest tends to stay at rest, when you get hit, your organs like to stay where they are as your skeleton is forced to move and they bang around inside their cage.

Question: What are dentists actually doing when they scrape at your teeth with those metal picks?
Answer: I think my dentist was counting money while my hygienist was scraping my teeth.

Question: When did we stop having to type in 'www.'?  Why did we have to to begin with?
Answer: It's because servers where traditionally named according to the services they provide. So a world wide web server had www., a file transfer protocol server had ftp., et caetera. We stopped having to type it because nowadays, the www._URL_0_ and _URL_0_ URLs both refer to the same server (URL is like a set of coordinates on a map that is given to your web browser to go and find the web site). Some sites don't, and so typing either form might yield different results.

Most browsers also add the www. in automatically, to stop any problems that might occur.

Question: What is the difference between real and imaginary numbers?
Answer: "Imaginary" is a bad word for them because they definitely exist, they're just part of the complex plane.

Imagine the number line, which contains all "real" numbers going off left and right into infinity.  Left is negative, right is positive.  Take a step to the right and you're at 1, a step to the left and you're at -1.  Now imagine you take a step *forward* instead of left or right.  Or you take a step backwards.  You're going *somewhere*, you're going to a number - a number that definitely "exists" but it's not on this line that contains all "real" numbers.  So when you take one step forward, it's not in the 1 direction, it's in the i direction.  A step backwards is in the -i direction.  Two steps is 2i, then 3i, etc.  You have another number line that stretches forward and backward to infinity, which is the "imaginary" number line.  When you put them together, you get the complex plane: that is, if you take three steps to the right and four steps forward, your position can't be described just by the real or imaginary number line, it's at 3+4i.

You can do this again with the "up/down" direction and create another number line that isn't real *or* imaginary numbers, that goes into three dimensions.  Those are *quaternions* - units of numbers that are further into complex dimentions.  The new line is marked with j, then k...and you can just keep going into more and more dimensions.

[Relevant Numberphile](_URL_0_)

EDIT: A word, and I'm bad at math.

Question: Running sprinklers at night time
Answer: _URL_0_  (4 am - 9am)

Read #3, in Texas the water loss to evaporation is rediculous

Question: How odds work if everything is random?
Answer: Odds basically tell you that if the exact same situation were to occur an infinite number of times, what portion of those times would lead to that specific result.

e.g. If you have the Ace of Hearts, King of Hearts, Queen of Hearts and Jack of Hearts in your hand and 48 shuffled cards in front of you, there is a 1 in 48 chance you will end up with a 10 of hearts for a Royal Flush. There is no way of guessing which card will come up next, but if you shuffled that deck drew a card (made note of which card it was, replaced it and repeat) millions of times, you would get the Royal Flush 1/48 of the time.

A pro would make that bet if it pays better than 48 times their money. They will only win 1/48 of the time, but if they get the chance to make that bet many many times in their lives, the rare win will make up for the cost of the losses.

Question: How do Jeopardy contestant's study?
Answer: Okay, so no Ken Jennings. How about Arthur Chu?

From [this](_URL_0_) article:

 >  Literally the first thing I did when I got the call was to ask myself, “Do I feel ready?” And the answer is, “Hell no, I don’t feel ready.” Thankfully, we live in the electronic age. So without having to use too much ingenuity or creativity, I just typed “Jeopardy! strategy” and “Jeopardy! studying” into Google, and lo and behold…

 >  Jeopardy! has been around for 30 years. All of the advice about how to study for Jeopardy! and how to play Jeopardy! has already been written. There’s a community online, called the J-board, of past Jeopardy! contestants and fans who just talk about this all the time. So I absorbed a lot of strategies from the greats. One of them was Roger Craig, who won a couple years ago and who broke the one-day total winnings record. He’s brilliant. He is a computer scientist, and he actually combed through an archive of past Jeopardy! games using an algorithm that scrapes all the clues out and figured out what the most common categories were, what the most common high-value categories were. Then he compared it to his own performance using flashcards to tell him where his most important weak spots were. 

 >  Jeopardy! feels like it can be anything, but most of the really random clues come in the first round. The higher-value clues in Double Jeopardy are much more limited. They’re much more about traditional academic knowledge, things that a gentleman and a scholar is supposed to know, like history, geography, literature. And Final Jeopardy is often really focused on Americana. They love state capitals, state nicknames, U.S. presidential facts. 

 >  You can’t possibly learn everything you need to know to get a perfect score, but to greatly increase your chance of winning, there are a few finite sets of knowledge that you actually can memorize. You can memorize what all the state capitals and all the world capitals are. You can find a list of all the official state nicknames and memorize those. And once you’ve done that, because those things come up over and over again, you’ve given yourself a big advantage. 

 >  There’s a program that Roger Craig recommended, that I ended up using as well, called Anki. It’s a free program, and it uses what they call space repetition, which is an algorithm that keeps track of how well you do on flashcards and focuses on giving you the flashcards that give you the most trouble at regular intervals. So you boost your knowledge where you need help the most. I’m not a computer scientist, so unlike Roger Craig, I didn’t have a super scientific way of judging what I needed to know. I just looked at his comments. “Oh, you need to know about Nobel Prize-winning literature writers. You need to know about U.S. presidential facts.” And then I just put together a little study guide and committed to it. I started doing that every night instead of going out with friends or acknowledging my wife.

Question: how can i press my stomach out?
Answer: The mechanism for inhaling is using your diaphragm to basically pull down, creating negative pressure in your lungs. When you inhale deeply to cause your abdomen to protrude, you relax your abdominal muscles and your diaphragm pushes down slightly on your abdominal organs, mostly your intestines, causing your abdomen to stick out.
Edit: accuracy

Question: How do phones and iPods and such know when they are turned sideways?
Answer: _URL_0_ 
It's called an accelerometer. This guy breaks it dowwn.

Question: What would be the simplest way to "unplug" the internet, causing total shut down by means of disabling hardware?
Answer: Like, in your house? Or the whole thing?

In your house, just unplug the cable between the router and the modem. 

The Internet as a whole is so resilient (it was intended to survive nuclear strikes) that it would be extraordinarily difficult. Global thermonuclear war might do it.

Question: The whole Wiki leaks and assange debacle.
Answer: Assange made a website that exposed private and sensitive information about important people and events, in particular the government, and they got angry.

Question: What is homeopathy?
Answer: It's basically a magic potion with nothing in it.  The idea is that you take a bit of something that causes the symptoms you want (say, some caffeine to make a sleeping pill, because caffeine causes you to stay awake), add it to water, do a magical ritual involving shaking the thing in certain directions a specific number of times.  Then you take a tiny bit of the solution you've made, and put that into another container of water, and repeat the ritual.  Now you have a tenth or a hundredth the caffeine you had the last time around.  Do this a bunch of times until the solution has diluted all the stuff out of it completely, and you have nothing but shaken water remaining.  Now you have a homeopathic medication.

The reason that people make fun of it is that it's so utterly absurd.  A lot of people seem to be under the mistaken impression that it's some form of herbal medicine or something.  It isn't.  It's a form of ritual magic that in the end gives you a potion consisting of no medicinal ingredients whatsoever.

Question: How my wife and kids would go about inheriting things that are only in my name like bank accounts, house, ect..
Answer: By default, after you die, everything will go to your legal next of kin.  That person (or persons) is defined in this order, and if you don't have a living member of each group, it passes to the next one down:

Spouse
Children
Parents
Siblings

I believe that next comes grandkids, then grandparents, but don't quote me on that.

So if you don't have a spouse, but you have 3 kids and 2 parents living, your property would be split between your kids by default.  And they'd inherit debts and things as well.

A will exists to change these defaults.  Say you have a spouse, but you still want to make sure that certain things go to your kids, your will would enumerate "Hey, my kids get this, this and this, and my spouse gets whatever I didn't list."

Question: What is my all carbs/protein diet doing for me?
Answer: Weight gain is dependent on calories in and calories burned. It doesn't matter where you're getting those calories from, if you burn them all through activity and lifestyle, then you're not going to put on weight. Olympic Swimmer Michael Phelps ate somewhere around 2000 Calories for breakfast (remember watching a documentary - his breakfast had eggs, bacon, sausages, waffles with syrup, etc).

My only concern about your diet would be that your lack of fruits and vegetables could mean you're risking various vitamin deficiencies such as Vitamin C, A, B12, K, etc. Not to mention you might not be getting that much fibre and depending on what exactly it is you eat, your cholesterol level could suffer.

Question: What ultimately stops you from jumping higher on a trampoline?
Answer: Diminishing returns.

The first time you jump on a trampoline, the only real force pushing you upward is coming from your legs.

On the next bounce, the trampoline converts a bunch of your downward momentum into upward momentum and helps push you back up into the air. If you push off again with your legs as that's happening, you will go even higher than you did the first time.

That means on the next bounce, you have even more downward momentum that the trampoline will convert into upward momentum for you (because you're falling from a higher distance and picking up more speed on the way down).

This works the first few times, but eventually you hit a point where you're already being pushed up into the air so quickly each time, your legs can't really do anything significant to help.

Question: Are calories just calories? Is it the same if you get a calorie from a fizzy drink or a piece of fruit or a slice of potato or a bit of cheese?
Answer: Yes, a calorie is a calorie, source is largely irrelevant, but that doesn't necessarily mean your body will react the same way. The input isn't different, but the output can be. 

A simplistic analogy might be to consider getting punched with a certain measure of force (say 5 newtons). If you got punched like this in a boxing match, or in a tense situation on the street, it might neither surprise you much, nor would it hurt. If however, your mother or significant other hit you with the same level of force, you might end up massively more shocked, noticing it far more etc. In the same way whilst the force (calories) of an input will always be the same, the way your body reacts to the input will vary depending on its local environment - is it currently undergoing severe starvation, do you have a metabolic disease, are you middle aged etc. The local environment your body finds itself in can influence how it reacts to a calorie. This can be influenced by, amongst other things, the food you eat. So calories from fizzy drinks, whilst theoretically the same as other calories, might be treated differently by the body than a calorie from a piece of fruit, because of knock on effects from consuming a fizzy drink. The calories themselves aren't different but the method of administration can alter the reaction your body has to it. There are probably additional effects (albeit not particularly large) depending on things such as whether you have just exercised, how easily digestible the food is, current energy/glucose levels etc, or even your own personal biological quirks that influence how your body operates. Most of this stuff is relatively small scale though, and not worth worrying about at an individual level.

_URL_0_

Question: What can I do as a single individual to get Gary Johnson in the debates?
Answer: You could phone bank, donate to his campaign, that sort of thing.

The question you should be asking yourself is why you want Gary Johnson in the debates. His economic policies are frankly terrible. He thinks that socialized medicine is a bad thing, when it's been proven to be the superior system in every measure except 5 year cancer survival rate. He's courted anti-vaxxers, a movement I would like to point out quite literally kills children.

Sure, it would be nice to have alternate voices on the campaign trail. But I would prefer to have sane ones rather than crazy ones.

Question: (or 18): Indefinite Detention Act
Answer: The portion everyone's worried about basically states that if someone is accused or suspected of being a terrorist the US government can detain (lock up) them indefinitely regardless of whether or not they are an American citizen. This is a big deal because, in addition to reminding everyone of the Red Scare in the 50s, it is a direct violation of the bill of rights, specifically the fourth amendment. 

 > Fourth Amendment – Protection from unreasonable search and seizure.
The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no Warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or things to be seized. --Wikipedia

Basically without a warrant, they cannot arrest you unless they see you committing the crime. This would remove that protection without modifying the constitution. In any sane environment it would immediately be thrown out by the Supreme Court as a violation of the constitution, but that its gotten this far to being passed is extremely worrying in and of itself.

TL;DR: If the government doesn't like what you are saying/doing (OWS) they can 'suspect' you of terrorism, or of planning terrorism, or having vague ties to terrorism, and detain you indefinitely behind bars.

Or at least that's my understanding.

Edit: Personally the distinction in the past few years that the constitution only protects American citizens and that for anyone else we can even ignore the Geneva convention if we feel like it is just as, if not more worrisome. Who the hell thinks like that. I don't care if he's British he's still human.

Question: Why do computer telephone response systems always ask me to type a bunch of info, then transfer me to a human who asks for the exact same info?
Answer: I used to work for costumer service and we do this to make it an unpleasant experience for the costumer so that they never call again.
It's the same concept as those In-mail rebates that tend to be annoying to complete.
That's why I ended up quitting. I didn't like the whole idea of treating the customers bad.

Question: Why is it that lakes/ponds around the world have fairly similar fish, instead of them each having their own unique species of fish like land ecosystems do for animals?
Answer: The water in the lake came from somewhere.  Most lakes are fed by rivers and streams, or were originally parts of a river network as is the case with [oxbow lakes.](_URL_0_)

A lake that was completely isolated from any other sources of water would eventually see evolutionary divergence if it had unique stressors, but there aren't many, if any, lakes like that, at least aboveground.

Also a lot of lake and river fisheries are stocked by humans.  Like, you'll find largemouth bass in a lot of fisheries around the world, it's especially popular in Japan, but largemouth bass are only native to North America.  They were artificially introduced to fisheries elsewhere.

Question: How bars or clubs charge huge crowds of people randomly ordering drinks.
Answer: people either start a tab or they pay up front. it's part of a bartender's job to make sure they get paid for their goods/services. i'm sure some bars and bartenders will allow regulars to get away without paying upfront in certain scenarios, but that really depends on the business and employees.

Question: What is Operator Overloading
Answer: In programming operator overloading is when you take a simple mathematical or logical operator like + or ! and define what that means. It's generally only applied to user-defined types/classes/objects, as the definition of these operators tends to be predefined for numbers etc.

Imagine you have an object X, only you the programmer can define what it means to add two X objects together. X might represent a list of objects in which case the result would be an X representing the concatenation of both lists. X might represent a mathematical vector, so the result would be an X representing a vector that's the result of adding the two argument vectors together. 

The best example for this is C++'s [std::string](_URL_1_) which has an operator+ that takes two strings and returns the string representing the concatenation of the two arguments. 

Some languages (again using C++ as an example) have conversion operators as well, such as [operator bool on std::shared_ptr](_URL_0_) which defines how to convert a shared_ptr to a boolean for use with (for example) `if(!myptr){}` or `if(myptr){}` expressions, but otherwise works in a similar way.

Different operators take different numbers of arguments, e.g. ! is a unary operator, takes 1 argument, + / - * are all binary operators and take two, and so on.

Edit: ! is a unary operator not a binary. I knew what I meant ;-)

Question: What is vanity sizing in clothing?
Answer: In fashion, womens' fashions in particular, people want to believe they are thinner than they actually are, and if you get north of a size 6, which is still quit thin, you are often looked down upon for being too fat.  Some designers don't even make their clothes in the higher sizes.

To make consumers feel better and buy more, some brands cheat a little bit on the size, so what is labelled as a size 6 is closer to a size 8.  Other brands, to maintain more exclusivity and to ensure only the thinnest people wear their clothes, cheat the other direction, so a size 6 is more of a size 4.

 >  How do I properly size clothes online that aren't in vanity sizing?

* measure yourself and go by inches rather than size
* check the return policy...a retailer with more friendly online return policy is going to be more confident in their sizing
* be honest with yourself...vanity sizing works because people want to insist they are a smaller size than the actually are
* shop brands with a strong online presence, and be extra careful going through a reseller or a department store that is just carrying the brand
* read reviews...sizing is one of the first topics people will mention

Question: Why group mentality is so powerful
Answer: Human nature to belong and conform to social groups, empathy, and natural fear of exclusion.

It's kind of instinctual, that's why the weak minded are susceptible to group mentality. Case in point: Reddit.

Question: Why can't horses get rid of flies on their eyes?
Answer: They blink, the fly flies off, goes about two feet, pulls a u-turn and goes back to the eye.   
They can get rid of them, but they can't keep them away.    
  
Really, the ancestor to the domestic horse wouldn't have had this problem because they didn't live in stables.    
It's the domestic horse's enclosure that attracts the flies, gives them a breeding ground, and traps the horse so it can't get away.  
   
It wouldn't be a problem if they didn't live in the environment we put them in.

Question: If each pixel is merely a combination of a red, blue, or green light, why don't colorblind people who can, for example, not see red or green colors, only see blue on computer monitors?
Answer: It's not that colour-blind people can't see red or green.  They can see them both fine; they just can't tell them apart.

Question: What is happening after a workout in our body?
Answer: As I understand it
In a workout with decent intensity(a lot of weight being moved/force being generated) your body releases testosterone and a pulse of growth hormone. After about an hour this pulse gives way to stress hormones like cortisol. During this time you deplete nutrients from the muscles, stress your bones, and usually slightly damage the muscle fibers. All these stimuli lead to your body adapting those systems to tolerate the strain you put on them. So in the days following the workout, your bones would get denser, muscles would be replenished(for most people, about 48-60 hours after a session is a period of supercompensation in terms of stored muscle energy, the optimal time to lift again) and if you are eating in caloric excess OR you are a beginner, the muscles would grow slightly. I say caloric excess or beginner because at those times your body adapts very quickly to stresses. You will be incredibly sore, but as a novice you might be able to add 30 pounds to your maximum squat in 3 sessions. When just starting out, your body is panicking trying to adjust, so it pulls energy from your fat stores to supply the important tissues, the muscles    Also soreness/physical pain is not a sign of an effective workout.

Question: What is it like playing intense sport (or exercise) in freezing weather?
Answer: Down to -5 no major differences, except you can loose heat rapidly if you stop moving, layering your clothing is important to manage your heat/sweat.

-5 to -20 your get an iron taste in your throat/mouth when breathing heavily, otherwise same as above.

Below -20 breathing becomes painful, your nose can freeze, your sweat freezes before evaporating. Layering changes from important to critical as these are the templates where sweating can lead to death.

Question: what ever happened to Dane Cook?
Answer: Credit to /u/noposters for this answer: What people don't realize about Dane Cook is that he was on a mega run before Harmful if Swallowed blew up. Even before his comedy central half hour, he was the highest paid comedian touring colleges at that time (not the highest paid in general, but he swooped in when Sandler stopped doing colleges and took those gigs at Sandler's rate). Once his albums blew up, he played MSG, etc. he tried to make the transition into film. His films flopped, and simultaneously both his parents died and it was discovered that his brother/business manager had stolen 50million dollars from him (never recovered). With all those things coming together, he took a bunch of time off. When he came back, tastes had changed and he no longer had the traction he'd had years earlier. He tried to make some comeback appearances but wound up generating controversy by trashing the audience at one of his shows at the Laugh Factory (TJ Miller and others brutalized him on twitter for his behavior). Since then he's appeared here and there in LA and done some voiceover work, but for the most part he keeps a low profile. He's also alienated a lot of people in the NY comedy community for playing up his relationship with Patrice O'Neal in interviews when the two were, in fact, not close

Question: The Hateful Eight in 70mm, is there no way to replicate so every theatre gets that "visual effect"?
Answer: Gonna get a little technical:   
  
The movie has a digital equivalence of around 8192x2968 (assuming a 4K equivalence for regular 4-perf 35mm). I don't know of any theater that has a projector above 4K, many are even at 2K (2048x1080, almost the same as regular 1920x1080, as most movies are 2K).  
  
So, seeing it in a theater with 4K projection is the next best thing (at basically 50% the "resolution").  
  
Movies like Interstellar, The Dark Knight, Star Wars Ep VII (only one scene though), etc. are even bigger because they are 70mm IMAX, which is around 11800x8192. I saw both Interstellar and Star Wars Ep VII in this format and it what great, Interstellar took the cake though in terms of how amazing it was visually/immersively.

Question: Calvinism
Answer: John Calvin was a theologian who was part of the reformation. His theology became known as Calvinism. 

Basically Calvinism is boiled down to the TULIP beliefs. 

* T - Total Depravity - All parts of man are affected by sin
* U - Unconditional Election - We are saved by Christ without any conditions. We do not earn it, it is completely a gift.
* L - Limited Atonement - Jesus died on the cross only for those who follow Him. His atonement for sins was not for everyone.
* I - Irresistible Grace - If God wants you to follow Him you can't resist the call.
* P - Perseverance of the Saints -Once saved always saved. You can't lose your salvation.

Not every Calvinist agrees with all 5 points. In fact, some say Calvin didn't believe in all of them (the term TULIP was made up after he died) but these are the basic theological points.

**tl;dr - There are two main camps of Christian theology. Men are in control and choose to follow God (Arminianism) and God is in control and chooses who follows Him  (Calvinism).**

Question: How does a watch know when a month has 30 or 31 days?
Answer: I think you have to manually adjust it every time the month changes, but not sure, sure someone will correct me.

Question: Why does tiredness feel as though it comes in waves?
Answer: Biorhythms.  Your body has cycles: breathing, heartbeat, blinking, even which nostril you use.  Your wakefulness/tiredness is also cyclic.

Question: how does your brain produce a coloured image through staring at a negative?
Answer: These are called afterimages and their existence is covered by something called Opponent Process Theory.

Basically, you have 3 types of cells in your eye that detect color. They are called cones. One cone is sensitive to the wavelength of light we associate with "red", another to "green", and another to "blue" light. I put the color names in quotes because you must understand that COLOR DOES NOT EXIST IN THE OUTSIDE WORLD, YOUR BRAIN MAKES IT. This is itself is mindblowing but I promise it is true. 

Anyway, the cells get tired after looking at the same thing for too long (both the cones I mentioned and other cells further into your brain). They are a bit like a rubber band that gets stretched out the more it sees a certain color, and the more it stretches the more it really really wants to snap back. Stretching makes you see one color (say, red), while snapping back makes you see another color (green). 

The deeper cells in your brain are arranged in 3 opponent pairs: red-green, blue-yellow, and black-white. So, the more of you see of red, the more the opposite wants to come out. Same with the other colors. 

(Neurologically, this occurs because one color is produced by the cells getting excited and building up a particular chemical that tells your brain to produce red. This is an anabolic, or constructive, process. The opposite color is produced by the cells getting inhibited and the chemical being destroyed, which is a catabolic or destructive process. Again, it all works because these chemicals instruct your brain to produce the color image - your brain makes the actual color experience not the world).

Question: Why are most passwords hidden on-screen by default when you type them, but WIFI passwords are not?
Answer: Most on screen passwords are hidden in-case you have any shoulder surfers(people watching you type over your shoulder). WiFi passwords give you the option to either hide or show, in my opinion as WiFi passwords are normally longer than other account passwords they can be hard to make sure your typing correctly without seeing it

Question: Why does time use the number 60?
Answer: 60 is easy to divide cleanly in multiple ways, and a number based on 60, such as the number of degrees in a circle, can be divided yet more ways.  60 can be divided by 1,2,3,4,5,6,10,12,15,20,30 and itself.  This provides many easy-to-reckon, useful fractions.  In the days before pocket calculators, slide rules, Napier's Bones, etc. this made life simpler.

Question: - the Monsanto controversy
Answer: Worries about engineered foods aside, a lot of people have a huge problem with Monsanto's business model...

They use patent law to force farmers to buy seed from them every year. The farmers do not own the seeds that are created by the plants they are growing - Monsanto has the *patent* on the seed DNA. So they can't just buy seed one time and then create their own seeds from then on, as you might believe would be common sense. They even go so far as to sue farmers that *accidentally* grow Monsanto plants; from seeds blown over from a neighbor's field, for example. Monsanto charges a lot for the seed. They are definitely pushing the extremes of patent law to make as much money as possible.

Now, having said that, Monsanto invented some pretty cool seed. It creates its own pesticide, for example. So, by using it, you save money on spraying your crops. That's certainly worth something. People just disagree on how Monsanto should be compensated for what they've done. Obviously, a large corporation like Monsanto would like to squeeze as much money as possible from whoever they can. They aren't trying to work out a "fair deal" for what they've accomplished - they're just trying to maximize profit.

It's easy for people to envision a future (maybe not so distant) where corporations own the rights to everything we grow (through DNA patents) and charge a lot to farmers (and ultimately consumers) for licenses to grow crops.

Question: The true difference between i5 and i7 processors
Answer: The biggest difference between i5 and i7 processors is the number of concurrent threads they can handle.  i7 processors are equipped with hyperthreading, which is a technology that allows a single processor core to do almost as much work as two separate cores.

Imagine a single processor core is like a chef.  Both the current generation i5 and i7 processors have 6 chefs.  The chef receives a set of ingredients and a recipe, and lays it all out on the table.  This table is like a processor's cache - it's the memory that the processor has to work with.

The chef then prepares the meals, and puts them back on the table.  Now, the chef has to wait for the waiters to clean up the table and bring new ingredients.  The chef busts out his phone and takes a break while this happens.

Hyperthreading is like giving the chef 2 tables.  Now, while the chef is cooking one set of meals from table A, the staff can clear table B and bring new ingredients.  Once table A is complete, table B is ready for cooking.  The chef can now switch back and forth between the two tables and have almost no down time.

One of the other big differences is the size of the table - that is, the size of the cache.  i7's generally have larger cache sizes than i5's do, which can help them do more work in the same amount of time.

Edit: Just realized that I didn't really help you make a decision.  :)

Having more cores is only useful in certain situations.  When the work can be 'parallelized,' - that is, divided up such that the result from one chunk of work doesn't depend on the result of the previous chunk of work - then being able to handle more concurrent threads is a very good thing.  

For example, if you're building a house, you need to pour the foundation before you can set up framing, and you need to set up framing before you can run electrical and plumbing lines, and you need to set up electrical and plumbing before you can put up drywall, etc.  It's not possible to split a task like that up into several chunks and do them all simultaneously.

If you're building 20 houses, you can pour all 20 foundations at once, set up all 20 frames at once, etc.  The result of building part of one house doesn't depend on the construction of other houses.

To a CPU, gaming is often like building a house.  The calculations for one moment in the game will influence subsequent moments in the game, so it's not possible to divide the work up among several processor cores.

Video editing, on the other hand is highly parallelizable.  Rendering frame #25 doesn't usually depend on the results of rendering frame #20, so software can divide that work up and distribute it across the processing cores.

TL:DR; Gaming doesn't usually benefit as much from multiple processing cores.  Results will definitely vary from game to game though.  Video editing often does benefit from more processing cores, so you can reduce rendering time significantly by using an i7 instead of an i5.

Question: Why does water taste bitter after eating pineapples?
Answer: When the water hits your taste buds, they are stimulated a little. The problem is they have been overloaded with sugar and acid, thus they are temporarily unable to *report* sugar and acid at that moment. Therefore they report the only thing left: alkaline (bitter) taste.

Add that to the fact that most water has dissolved minerals in it that make it ever-so-slightly alkaline.

Question: What does fuel stabilizer do to gasoline?
Answer: Gasoline should keep indefinitely if stored properly.

However, stabilisers can be useful if fuel is stored incorrectly, for example, in partially full tanks of small equipment. The larger tanks in modern cars are carefully designed to protect fuel from air and evaporation.

Gasoline molecules can evaporate if the tank is not securely closed - a stabiliser won't do anything for that.

Gasoline molecules can oxidise by exposure to oxygen - a fuel stabiliser can contain an anti-oxidant to absorb the oxygen, and neutralise the free radicals accelerate the oxidation reaction.

Gasoline may contain traces of metal from manufacture/processing or from metal storage tanks. Certain metals can act as catalysts and cause the gasoline molecules to polymerise into sludge. Metal deactivator additives can absorb and neutralise the catalytic effect of metal contamination.

Gasoline may contain large quantities of ethanol to meet biofuel targets by governments. If stored open to the air, the ethanol can absorb water from the air, and this can cause the water/ethanol mix to separate from the gasoline. By adding a different alcohol (methanol or isopropanol), the water/alcohol mix doesn't separate as easily.

All these problems can be avoided if gasoline is stored in a tightly sealed plastic tank with only the minimum amount of air for an expansion space, as high quality gasolines will come with metal deactivators already added to neutralised contamination at the refinery.

Question: Hey Reddit, so what the hell are those squiggly lines I see in my peripheral every once in a while? Don't know why I didn't wonder until now..
Answer: They are called floaters. Mostly they are the shadows cast by bits of the inside of your eye that have broken off and are floating around in the vitreous humor, or eyeball fluid, in your eye.

_URL_0_

Question: how a drug goes from needing a prescription to being able to buy it without a prescription
Answer: Like you're five?  Because the grownups who make the drug (Sanofi) showed the grownups who regulate the drug (the Food and Drug Administration) that the drug is safe enough to take without needing the advice from a doctor.  The drug itself does the same thing only now you don't need a prescription from the doctor.  People get easier access the the medicine, the drug company gets to sell a lot more drugs, and pharmacies make more money because they're selling more OTC items.

For more see _URL_0_

Question: How do cars calculate speed and preview it on the speedometer?
Answer: **NOT ELI5**

The car's driveshaft also powers a *speedometer cable*, which spins a magnet around at the same speed inside the *speed cup*. This magnet rotates continually in an equal direction. This spinning creates a fluctuating magnetic field. The laws of electromagnetism dictate that a current must therefore flow inside this cup. This current causes the speed cup to also rotate. It attempts to catch up with the speed of the magnet. a *hairspring* stops this, so it only rotates a little. This small motion moves the dial on the speedometer a little. The stronger the current, the faster the cup rotates, the further the speedometer's dial moves.

 & nbsp;

**ELI5**

The driveshaft powers a speedometer cable, which leads to a magnet rotating inside a cup. A current is generated, and the cup tries to rotate also. A spring limits this, moving the dial. More current = more speed = dial moves further.

Question: If Western governments are worried about their citizens fighting for Daesh (the Islamic State) and returning to participate in terrorist activities, why do they have to "monitor" them when they come back rather than arrest them?
Answer: In most western democracies you  can't arrest someone just because the government doesn't like their political views (there are some exceptions to this rule but in general it holds). You have to be able to prove that they have committed some kind of crime in order to arrest them. 

Almost by definition someone who has joined up with Da'esh/IS will have "fallen"off the radar" of western security forces.  They'll know they joined up but it will be much harder to prove that they actually fought against western interests, which would be necessary to instigate a charge of treason or similar.

So the best we can do is have the security services "watch" them very closely, and if they look like they're about to commit any kind of crime then they can be pulled in.

Question: What would happen if we could drill a hole to the core of the Earth?
Answer: The Earth is molten beyond the crust, so we wouldn't get any further than that.

Question: Is there a psychological term for when you finish a game/book/series and feel empty inside?
Answer: "Ennui" (pronounced "on-we") is a pretty close fit. Also, it's French and they're very good at feeling empty and dissatisfied inside. 


ennui: 1. a feeling of utter weariness and discontent resulting from satiety or lack of interest; boredom:

Question: Why is it, that even though I genuinely love Whiskey, I shudder nearly every time I drink some?
Answer: Your conscious brain loves it, but your subconscious brain realizes that alcohol is inherently bad for the body, and causes you to shudder. It's a subconscious survival mechanism that you're overriding with your conscious brain.

Question: Why do our eyes not see color on the edge of our peripheral vision?
Answer: The cone cells that detect color aren't very good at low light or motion detection.

Since motion detection is more important at the periphery than color (does it really matter what color that sabre toothed tiger is?) we evolved to pack mostly rods and few cones in the corners.

Your brain remembers what colors things are and will attempt to color in the peripheral vision so you don't usually notice that it's basically grayscale.

Question: Why is it when I drink a glass of liquid I urinate at least twice as much back out?
Answer: Your bladder only sends the "time to pee" message to your brain when it reaches a certain level of fullness. So the amount you pee out doesn't just represent the glass of water you just drank, but all of the water you have drank since the last time you peed plus the water your body needed to dissolve the waste products it excretes in urine (urea, creatine and some other compounds).

Question: What prevents DNA from getting tangled?
Answer: Proteins!


There are *many, many* proteins in your body that have a specific job of keeping your DNA tangled/condensed the perfect amount. There are topoisomerases, a family of proteins, that specifically twist/untwist your DNA to introduce/remove "supercoils" (like what would happn when you twist an elastic band) to condense it or expand it. There are some proteins like histones to which the DNA will almost always be attached. The histones kind of serve as a backbone for the DNA; a place for the DNA to organize itself.


Of course, this is just the very basic level of proteins. There are many more proteins and ways to organize DNA. It's always proteins!

Question: Why does the tray in a microwave rotate?
Answer: Because there are hot and cooler spots due to the way the microwaves reflect around inside the oven. Rotating the food attempts to distribute the heat in the food more evenly.

Question: why child support is based on income rather than what a child would need monthly.
Answer: Child support is partially based on income. It is also partially based on the number of children and their age, the cost of basic living expenses and school in that general area, and whether or not any special needs are present. Which sometimes leads to a very high ratio, but that is also something that can happen when both parents live with their children; not all jobs pay a wage that covers a child's reasonable expenses. That doesn't mean those expenses don't occur though.

Question: If you had a room with all walls, the floor, and the ceiling made of perfect mirrors and you shined a light in there somehow, would the light continue in there forever? Would it somehow disappear?
Answer: Nothing is a perfect mirror. The material still ends up absorbing some of the light. Eventually it would all get absorbed.

Question: It seems like the whole world is against George Lucas' remade and remastered version of the Original Star Wars trilogy. What exactly did he do to change the story that makes fans hate it so much? Why all the vitriol?
Answer: As Pandromeda mentioned, Han Solo fired first. Also, he added in a bunch of CG aliens that didn't fit, put back in a deleted scene with Jabba the Hutt that wasn't necessary, added cheesy special effects to the Death Star explosion, added in a fucking song and dance number to Return of the Jedi, replaced the original ending of Jedi and added in Hayden Christiansen. He basically tinkered with it unnecessarily and added in a bunch of crappy looking CG aliens and effects.

edit: cheese=cheesy

Question: How do blankets work? Why do they allow me to become warm even when the outside is cold?
Answer: your body makes heat. this warms the air around your skin. the blanket holds that air close to you.

Question: Difference between computer virus, worm, and trojan horse
Answer: All of these are software programs.

Computer virus - the typical attribute here in a software program that makes it behave somewhat like a biological virus, is its ability to copy and replicate itself by "infecting" other software programs - i.e it attaches itself to these programs, either by infecting them as they are running in the memory of the computer or by accessing the disk and changing the file. When these infected programs are used, or copied to another computer, that computer becomes infected too. It also means, if you delete the virus or reboot the computer, running any of the infected programs will run the virus again and mean your computer is still infected.

Computer viruses tend to spread and infect via  replication. As anti-virus programs appeared that could detect computer viruses, programmers added the ability for these programs to mutate as well - i.e to change their code in subtle ways that wouldn't change their function but would make code that looked for a specific pattern fail to spot them. In some way this is similar to the way viruses mutate to avoid an immune system - albeit it's more about the word "virus" being descriptive rather than actual parallels between the 2.

A trojan horse - the attribute here, is that it's a program that looks like it performs a specific function - maybe a game or something - but which hides inside it a program that performs another function (usually a malicious one) - the analogy here is, of course, with the [trojan horse legend](_URL_0_) about people hiding inside a "gift" in order to enter and destroy a city.

A computer worm differs from a virus in that it doesn't infect another program, but it operates as a standalone program. It does copy itself, replicate and spread by exploiting security weaknesses usually via a network. You can picture this as a program running on your computer, which detects other computers connected to yours, so it "moves" over the network, via whatever security holes exist, until it's running on the other computers...and it continues like that traversing across the network looking for machines to infect.

It's worth noting that although bugs or issues with any of the above methods of infecting a computer may cause computers to crash or other faults and usually take resources, it's not the above actions, from which viruses, worms and trojans get their name, that are necessarily the motives of whoever creates them (Although earlier examples often did nothing more than copy and infect as exercises in curiosity)

More typically, there is another piece of the software, called the 'payload' which is designed to actually do something malicious, like steal your passwords or sink your nuclear submarine.  Payload coming from flight or launch vehicle terminology.

Question: Why does the media spend so much time covering the question of whether or not Jeb Bush can rise in the polls, but doesn't extend nearly that level of coverage to other non popular contestants?
Answer: Jeb Bush is considered (generally) the primary establishment candidate, which means he's expected to have significant political clout with the republican party. Alternatively, he's also a Bush, which means he's entangled in a lot of familial controversy, 'Bush Dynasty' 'Can George Bush's brother win after his unpopularity?' sort of stuff.

Both attract interest, which the media wants in order to get paid.

Question: The different between Sunni and Shi'ite Muslims.
Answer: Shi'ites think that leadership in Islam should be hereditary, and that Imams more or less represent the authority of the founder through his bloodline.

Sunnis think that leadership in Islam should be by some sort of democratic process, and you don't need to be a descendant of the founder to hold authority.

It started out that way when the movement had to decide on how to continue after the death of its founder. Pretty soon, through in-fighting and because that is the way things go in a closely knit community,  everybody and his uncle also had an opinion that would be forced upon the community.

There is a Wikipedia article that goes into the various branches of islam in more detail:

_URL_0_

Question: Why did film become a synonym for movies when photography also used film?
Answer: It depends on the context, but I'll stick to your examples. People didn't view still photographs on photographic film. They needed to be printed on photographic paper. Slides are an exception, but they didn't get popular until later. 

Motion picture film is negative and printed onto another piece of film to make a positive for viewing via a projector. Many people view magnified motion picture film, but most people never view still photo negatives. 

This is may not be the etymology, but it makes sense, and that's what your looking for.

Question: The core beliefs of American political parties.
Answer: This is a difficult question, America is insanely vast. A Republican in New York is going to be much different from a republican in Texas. A democrat in California will be different from a democrat in Michigan. Any person that wants to run for major office with a likable chance of winning usually has to run under one of these two parties,  recent example: Bernie Sanders. 

The idea is Republican is generally more conservative, pushing for no economic regulation but social restrictions. Democrats are generally more Liberal pushing for zero social regulation but economic and business restrictions.

Question: How do broadcasters sell and maximize advertising revenue during live sports when they don't know how many commercial breaks there will be?
Answer: For American football games they know within one or two how many breaks there will be. On between possessions they will radio down and stop lay during the break a "TV timeout" and a dude in a bright colored red or yellow jacket will come out and stand with the ref until it is time to resume play.

Question: Why when we are sick/have an infection does our body temperature go up, as in a fever?
Answer: Many infections grow best at particularly precise temperatures. Your body raises your temperature as a defense mechanism, slowing down the reproduction of the infectious agent and giving your own defenses a chance to 'catch up'. At the same time it enhances the ability of some of your body's defenders to move around more actively in their war.

Question: Why do real almonds not taste like almond paste/flavoring?
Answer: The almond flavour you taste in almond paste, marzipan and so forth comes from an aromatic called benzaldehyde. This is found in *bitter* almonds, which also have a fairly hefty amount of cyanide; the latter is removed during the extraction of the benzaldehyde.

The almonds you eat in nut form are *sweet* almonds, which contain a much lower level of benzaldehyde, and, luckily enough, cyanide as well.

Benzaldehyde is also present in apricots, cherries, and peaches, which is why they all have similar taste profiles.

Question: Why haven't people as a whole adapted to the cold? We have adpated to the sun by the pigment in our skin changing colour depending on your exposure to sunlight.
Answer: Human's primary form of adaptation is the use of technology. So we have adapted to the cold by inventing insulated shelter, controlling fire, and making clothing.

Question: When I swallow a pill, why is there sometimes a heavy feeling in the back of my throat?
Answer: I used to get that feeling a lot when I first started taking my daily pills. Turns out I wasn't getting the pill "stuck" in my throat exactly, but I was not swallowing them with enough water. 

When someone swallows pills without proper salivation or lubricant the object can "scrape" itself on the back of your throat, leaving you with that heavy and sometimes painful feeling that doesn't go away for a while. It may feel like it's lodged in there, which could be possible, but it's most likely just pain from the pills contact. 

Long story short, always drink water before and with pills.

Question: Why is Reddit valued at "only" ~$1.8 billion, when less popular sites (e.g. Twitter) are worth many times more?
Answer: Reddit isn't publicly traded (there hasn't been an IPO yet), so speculation can't inflate the value of the company like Twitter or Tesla.

A company is basically worth how much people are willing to pay for shares of it, but you can't buy shares in Reddit yet.

It's also not profitable, yet, which doesn't help.

Question: How can there be a sex wage gap in the US if we've had the Equal Pay Law since 1960?
Answer: There's a bit of a misconception about the wage gap. For jobs in the exact same role with the exact same responsibilities, the wages are about the same. However, men tend to be more likely to be promoted to higher-paying positions. Women are also more likely than men to take extended time off or work part time while raising a family, meaning their careers are held back during that time.

Question: Why/how does eye-makeup (even simple eyeliner/moderate mascara use) have such a dramatic impact on how attractive women are perceived? Why only women? - is it all just socialization? (Are we just conditioned to think that's attractive?)
Answer: Eye make-up is often used to extenuate the size, shape or colour of someone's eyes.


Your eyes can give away a huge amount about your current state - revealing indicators about your health, your energy levels, your age, your state of mind etc.


A good application of eye make-up could take tired, old eyes and transform them into bright, youthful eyes with energy. The difference is enormous visually because so much of human contact is face-to-face and the eyes are the focal point of the face.

Question: How can electric motors for cars be small enough to fit into a car and relatively cheap while industrial electric motors with similar power and torque are the size of a kitchen and cost more than an electric car?
Answer: Industrial electric motors are meant to be run nearly 24/7 at higher loads and don't have to be portable, so size isn't usually a factor as much as keeping them cool, so they're built to shed excess heat better, and more surface are = more heat that can be transferred away.

on the other hand for cars, weight and size are bigger factors, and the motors in them will never be run full power all the time, so more effort is put into them to keep them smaller. Heat dissipation isn't as much of a problem either in a car as you can use the cars air flow to help keep things cool, whereas industrial motors don't usually sit in well ventilated areas.

Question: Why are sunglasses universally considered "cool"?
Answer: people use their eyes to communicate their level of comfort/aggression/submission with one another. shades will remove this information and allow others to fill in the blanks. for example, you might be avoiding eye contact, but because of your sunglasses this does not register with people and you seem undeservingly "cool"

Question: How To Turn an Extra Wireless Router into a Wireless Extender
Answer: You may be better off in one of the tech subreddits (like /r/techsupport or /r/networking).

However, I have done this before with a Linksys router.  Find out if one of the popular 3rd party firmwares (like [DD-WRT](_URL_0_) or [Tomato](_URL_1_)) will work on your router.  Then find a guide online to help you set it up as a repeater.

Make sure you read all instructions carefully, because you can brick your router if you are not careful when updating the firmware.

Question: What is the difference between quality sushi and regular sushi?
Answer: Fresh vs. Frozen - was it alive this morning?  

The Chef's reputation and experience - you're buying his car!  

The ambience isn't free, if you're having sushi at a Chinese buffet, it's mostly fake crab and Thai illegal immigrants doing the work.  

The exact kind of fish!  You're not going to find supermarket fish at the Sushi-is-us hole in the wall.  If you want the whole range of selection, you need the real Sushi Bar.

Question: Why do American cities often have to take large public transport projects such as light rail and metro system to the voters but don't have to do the same for massive highway and road construction?
Answer: Large road projects usually exist to keep the existing road network running, or to improve its relation to the rest of the city. Bridges need to be retrofitted, underpasses capped, tarmac replaced. They may be big projects, but they're really necessary to keep the system functioning like it is.

A major public transportation network is an entirely new investment. If you don't do it, you don't it--there's no downside other than that you don't have the network. A comparable project would be the construction of an entirely new highway link (or in some cities, the removal of major highways), which is rare and nowadays often put to voters as well. Of note is that many major highway projects were initiated in a time when referendums for transportation were not as common.

Question: How come bluetooth is so much slower than Wi-Fi?
Answer: Bluetooth is designed to be short-range very low-power for small portable equipment. Part of the power-savings of Bluetooth come from diminished bandwidth (just as much as the weaker signal). One could speed up Bluetooth to Wi-Fi speeds, but then it would defeat the purpose of BT's major design feature.

If you're looking for something that works like plunging a cable between devices but has Wi-Fi speeds, you might like wireless USB: _URL_0_

Question: How does the ISS avoid damage from solar wind's if it is always in constant orbit?
Answer: The ISS orbits beneath the protective shield created by the earth's magnetism. The bulk of the solar wind is deflected away from earth by the earth's magnetic field.

Question: Why do we tear up when we yawn
Answer: Not 100% sure if this is the correct answer, but the act of yawning presses against the glands which produce tears. These glands are like a sac, so pressing against these sacs make the tear flow regardless of if you need it or not

Question: With the Separation of Pangea, how come we didn't evolve into several different species?
Answer: We weren't around back then. The continents were already in their present form when humans evolved (in Africa, almost certainly).

Question: The new changes to paypal's policies, and why its bad for me.
Answer: The big one that's mentioned is the change that you can't join a class-action against paypal so I'll explain that.

Lawsuits are expensive. Even a little suit against your neighbor over cutting down your tree can rack up costs from court fees and time spent arguing the case. In a major court case involving a huge business, this gets even worse with the added time and expense of hiring a lawyer.

Generally speaking, a large corporation will have more money to throw at the court case than you do and can bog it down until you can't afford the costs anymore. Class action lawsuits are one of the defenses in the law against this. Instead of just representing yourself, you represent a whole group of people (a class) who were wronged by the corporation in the same way you were.

EXAMPLE:
Widget Works sells you a widget to trim your cat's fur. It sets the cat on fire and you sue for 200$ (cost of widget + damage to cat). Now, you can't afford to sue them and a lawyer won't do it for a cut of the reward. However, upon further research, you find that 10,000 other people had their cat set on fire by widgets. Although a cut of 200$ isn't enough for a lawyer, a cut of $2,000,000 is worth it. By filing a class action lawsuit of for yourself and those 10,000 people, you can actually find a lawyer to represent you.

Question: How is Canadian healthcare different from Obamacare?
Answer: Canadian healthcare is, more or less, single-payer. Basically, you pay a tax to the government and the government insures you.

American healthcare is a big old mess. We have single-payer for some people (Medicare), full-on nationalized healthcare for some (the Veterans' administration, where doctors are government employees), private insurance for many, and no insurance (fuck you and die) for some. 

Obamacare is actually working--it's fixing some of the worst problems with private insurance and reducing the number of people with no insurance. But our health care system is still a big old mess. Obamacare didn't create the mess, but it does sort of freeze it in place.

If you want more detail, I created a comic to explain Obamacare here: _URL_0_.

Question: Why do app developers like supercell release their updates/apps way earlier on one platform than the other?
Answer: If you're referring to the time gap between Android and iOS releases, the answer is because of Apple.

Things get on the Android market very easily and quickly, because the Android market is cool. Apple has dozens of excessive rules and guidelines that they strictly enforce, so they actually look through the app/code. This takes time, so they usually push the update to Android and iOS at the same time, and Apple takes forever to approve.

edit: of course this doesn't mean that Android doesn't have or enforce guidelines. They just aren't ridiculous like Apple's.

Question: Why doesn't the SAP button work in reverse
Answer: conjecture:

English speakers don't watch the shows, so they are not translated.

The shows are not translated because English speakers do not watch the shows.

Question: Why do the vast majority of good police officers and other form of L.E. protect the "bad apples" and not outcast/ help remove them?
Answer: Cop here.  Truly "bad" cops don't want to get caught.  If they're doing something shady,  they're probably hiding it.

A couple other factors:
Police departments operate independently from one another.   I have nothing to do with the department in the next town over, let alone across County or state lines. 

Even within the same department,  you'll have your own beat.  You'll go most of the day without interacting with your fellow officers.   I work in a department with over 1700 sworn officers.  I see about 10 of them a day, and only 2 or 3 of them will I actuality go on calls with in my response area.

Question: If we were still at war with Nazi Germany, Nazi supporters would be tried for treason. Why now are Nazi groups aloud to persist, unchallenged by law?
Answer: There is a very fine balancing act between avoiding government censorship and persecution of political groups on the one hand, and allowing desctructive elements to fester until they become too big to deal with on the other.

If you give the government powers to imprison people for holding certain political beliefs, how is that fundamentally different from what the Gestapo did? And who gets to say exactly which political opinions are allowed and which are not?

Back in the Germany of the 1930s, the popular belief was that it was the Communists who were the dangerous, subversive elements, and the Nazis promised to deal with them. It was when the Reichstag building burned down -- apparently as part of a Communist plot, although nobody can ever be 100% sure of that -- that the Nazis were able to push through their Enabling Act, a kind of emergency legislation, ostensibly to eliminate this threat to society, but which in fact made it possible to effectively ban all other political parties and dismantle Germany's entire democratic system.

For obvious reasons, modern Germany is very keen to ensure that extremist political groups can never do such a thing ever again, and so they had to come up with a way to ban such organisations without giving a future government the power to eliminate all opposition in exactly the way the Nazis did.

Germany's approach takes on this form: first, the German constitution contains lots of written guarantees of certain basic human rights. Many clauses are subject to what's called an "eternity clause", meaning they can never be repealed or weakened for any reason whatever, and they must be included in any new constitution that succeeds the current one.

Then, there is a ban on any political party that is, in the language of German law, "antagonistic to the constitution". That is, if your political movement can be shown to be actively working towards undermining the constitution, it can be banned.

The bar is set quite high, though. The authorities have to gather a *lot* of evidence, and this often means infiltrating the movement. There was an embarrassing case a couple of years ago, when some agents had infiltrated such a movement so successfully, that they rose up through the ranks and some of them were partly responsible for the very policies that were supposed to be evidence of the party's anti-constitutional aims. (It's difficult to blame the agents -- after all, they really didn't want to break cover.)

Then the constitutional court has to study the evidence, and decide whether or not to withdraw the organisation's status as a political party.

But even if you ban the organisation, you can't change the minds of the individuals. They will simply regroup, and join or found a new party, taking care to ensure that in public at least, they stay on the right side of the law.

The real key to this, though, is not the nuclear option of suspending basic rights for certain classes of people. It seems to be education, and here Germany has an advantage. All German schoolchildren are taught about the rise of the Nazis and WW2, and in particular they are all made to visit a concentration camp. The message "Never again" is drummed into them from a very early age.

Question: Why is pencil graphite referred to as Lead instead of graphite?
Answer: Before chemistry was really a thing, everyone thought that graphite was a type of lead, probably because it's so soft.

Question: If your shoe comes off why according to reddit, does it normally equal death in an accident?
Answer: Can you imagine being hit so hard you fly out of your shoes??

Question: Why are the words "Yeah" and "Oh" always in pop songs and said for so long?
Answer: They are used as *filler* where the tune requires a note, but the singer doesn't have anything more to say.

An excellent lyricist will try to adjust the wording so that not too many of these are needed.

Question: How do certain websites offer free copyrighted movies and television shows without being shut down?
Answer: I know of a few websites that use servers that are outside of the US, specifically in regions in which they could give fuck-all about US Copyright laws. Think small eastern Euro countries, and the middle east. I personally met someone who ran an operation remotely in Saudi Arabia, from the US, and literally had $25k dropped into his bank account overnight after three or four months of successful operation. It's insanely lucrative if you know and understand basic webdev and some programming.

Question: The different branches of Christianity, and why they are no longer combated as heresy
Answer: In many Christian circles, this is the analogy that applies:

Imagine a target, with three rings. The center, the bullseye, are the core values. I call them "primaries". It's what defines Christianity. Without starting a debate, I'll say that some people disagree on what goes in the middle. These people we'd call heretics (an extreme example would be to say that Christians pray to Allah - obviously wrong religion). 

In the next outer ring, the middle, we have "secondaries" - this contains issues like speaking in tongues, eating shellfish/pork, Saturday vs Sunday Sabbath, etc. We can disagree and have discussion on these, but it doesn't make you less Christian. 

In the outermost ring, everything else falls. This would be issues like watching R-rate movies, wearing jewelry made of gold, and non-related topics like playing sports or driving race cars. We use our secondaries and primaries to express our outermost issues.

We have unity in primaries, liberty in secondaries, and charity in all. 

Source: I am a Christian (actually a Messianic Jew).

Question: Where does color goes when the sun "bleaches" it?
Answer: It breaks the molecules that make the color, and the byproducts don't have any specific color. The atoms are still there, but formed into different molecules.

Question: Animal cloning
Answer: The egg of a donor animal is obtained.  The nucleus is sucked out of the egg, and the nucleus from an adult animal that is desired to be cloned is injected.  The egg then will either expire or start to divide.  If division is allowed to continue, the embryo may be able to be implanted into a host surrogate mother animal, and the clone then gestates as a normal embryo does.  Gestation complete, it is born.  

Tada, clone.

Typically, all the animal parts are the same animal, but not always.  An example of a 12 day old experiment with cow egg and human nucleus happened, for example.

_URL_0_

It is important to note that this does not guarantee a psychological/mental clone, but a physical one.  The experiences of the clone, unless *exactly duplicated in every way to the original*, will mean the clone will wind up with a different personalty traits and/or knowledge (say, one dog can sit on command, while the cloned one won't know that if not taught.)

Hope that helps!

Edit: Personality bit.

Question: Considering the origins of the English language (of which I have limited knowledge). Could an alien civilisation develop a strikingly similar language?
Answer: Well, you have rather easy window into this:

Try comparing languages from other places around the Earth. Do they resemble each other?

Turns out, even if you have people who repeatedly talked to each other, shared environment, and their language was born from the same original language, the languages within just the span of hundreds of years diverge greatly.

Languages sharing roots basically means that the language you speak and language they speak were originally the same language, but both developed in other direction. For example, English is a Germanic language. A long time ago speakers of that Germanic language started living in various places in Europe, and that Germanic language then developed, due to various circumstances, into English, German, Swedish, Norse, etc. Germanic languages belong to wider group of Indo-European languages, which also contains Latin and other Romance languages, like Spanish. Originally these were a single tongue that was just split.

But there are other language families. Within Europe, Finno-Ugric language group is entirely unrelated to Indo-European languages. Japanese belongs seemingly to the language family of its own, it doesn't seem to share similarities with any other major languages. Africa has languages that for example utilize that clicking sound you can do with your tongue, resulting in massively different kind of language. Etc etc.

Basically, even if you have humans, living on the same continent, that couple hundred or thousand years ago were speaking the same tongue, the language they speak today doesn't necessarily resemble much at all each other.

Even further, if you're curious about English, you know how Shakespeare has his curious style of writing? That style is kinda what defines "Early Modern English". But turns out, English just couple hundred years earlier was almost unintelligible to modern speaker, 

Here for example is a Bible passage, in English, from 1380's:

 >  And it was don aftirward, and Jhesu made iorney by citees and castelis, prechinge and euangelysinge þe rewme of God, and twelue wiþ him; and summe wymmen þat weren heelid of wickide spiritis and syknessis, Marie, þat is clepid Mawdeleyn, of whom seuene deuelis wenten out, and Jone, þe wyf of Chuse, procuratour of Eroude, and Susanne, and manye oþere, whiche mynystriden to him of her riches.\

Here's Lord's Prayer in Old English, from about 1000 years ago:

 >  Fæder ūre þū þe eart on heofonum,

  >  Sī þīn nama ġehālgod.

  >  Tōbecume þīn rīċe,

  >  ġewurþe þīn willa, on eorðan swā swā on heofonum.

  >  Ūre ġedæġhwāmlīcan hlāf syle ūs tō dæġ,

  >  and forġyf ūs ūre gyltas, swā swā wē forġyfað ūrum gyltendum.

  >  And ne ġelǣd þū ūs on costnunge, ac ālȳs ūs of yfele.
 
 >  Sōþlīċe.

The same read out loud: _URL_0_

Question: Why does my phone echo sometimes?
Answer: issues with the line. there is noise on the line when you call. when you hang up an phone it makes a new connection and this time no issue with the connection. 

it can be either the person you call or your phone line causing this issue

Question: what are the differences between parliamentary systems and the powers of a prime minister versus a president?
Answer: The exact details vary from country to country, but basically the Prime Minister (or Chancellor, or similar term in other countries) is the head of *government*, while the President (or, in the case of countries like the UK, which are constitutional monarchies, the Monarch) is head of *state*. The US President combines both roles, but -- if things work the way they're designed to work -- his powers are limited by Congress as part of the system of "checks and balances", which also involve the courts in the three branches of government and the separation of powers.

Usually, the PM is the leader of the largest party represented in Parliament -- so one of the elected representatives. He also chairs the Cabinet, which is also usually composed of elected representatives. From an American perspective, this means that much of the Executive branch overlaps with the Legislative branch.

The PM chairs the Cabinet, which implements laws and also formulates official government policy, so the Prime Minister pretty much sets the agenda. However, most things the PM and Cabinet do is subject to debates and votes in Parliament, which includes the opposition.

The role of a President is often ceremonial; and in a modern constitutional monarchy, the role of the monarch is also ceremonial. The British monarch, for example, has pretty much no say at all in the political system. In theory, the British Queen could refuse to sign an Act of Parliament into law; in practice, this would provoke a constitutional crisis and probably spell the end of the British monarchy. She does, though, represent Britain internationally, and holds some important posts, such as Head of the Commonwealth of Nations, which is a very useful platform for about 50 countries to discuss issues of mutual interest.

In a republic, the President might have a few actual powers. This might be emergency powers, such taking charge temporarily if the government collapses. The German President, for example, reviews all legislation he is asked to sign, and can refer it back to Parliament if he believes the proper procedure was not followed, or to the Constitutional Court if he believes it is not compatible with the constitution. The French President has more wide-reaching powers, and is allowed to actually direct government policy if (and only if) the majority of the Assembly sides with him.

Question: Why does inbreeding cause the offspring to have a significantly lower IQ than average? What is the science behind it?
Answer: take it that a human body has 2 sets of genes.

When a baby is made, half the genes are from the mother and other half is from the father.

These genes make proteins which help our body work. However, there are occasionally some errors in the genes which ends up making defective/too much/too little proteins which give rise to diseases. 

Some of these diseases require 2 faulty set of genes in order to manifest. So if daddy has a defective gene but mommy contributes a normal set, the disease does not manifest clinically (or is milder).

If there are many generations of inbreeding, the set of defective genes are kept within the same family tree; there is no new genetic input from a different family and thus the probability of having a child with 2 sets of defective genes increase. This increases the risk of diseases, out of which some may feature a lower IQ/brain malformations.

Question: Why is it that after waking from a bad dream, even though I am awake and aware that the dream was not real, I am still irrationally freaked out and disturbed by the events of the dream for a good amount of time?
Answer: If you are having a scary dream your body may start producing Adrenaline, or other hormones that help you deal with stressful situations.


Even though you have woken up, those hormones are still active in your system and the heightened sense of awareness sticks around until your hormone levels return to normal.

Question: What are some indicators for advancement in relationships?
Answer: I'm a little confused as to what exactly you want to know. Are you talking about the stages of a romantic relationship, and if so are you asking for "signals" or are you asking for general stages, like hand-holding to kissing to sex?

Question: Why can't modern houses be economically independent with solar + battery+ a little backup generator just incase?
Answer: A) You need a large array of solar powers to provide full coverage to the home (large initial cost, requires a lot of surface area, potentially takes away from the visual appeal of the home)

B) until very recently, there hasn't really been any cost-effective battery solution for homes (Tesla Powerwall is helping to change this)

C) Most people who live in developed countries don't have to worry about power outages because they are extremely rare.

In these countries, it doesn't make sense to install solar panels just as an emergency backup... you would only do the install if your intention was to go off-grid so you don't have to pay a monthly electric utility bill (and/or because you can sell excess electricity back to the grid / power company to potentially earn money).

Question: If we are 70% H2O, why are we considered Carbon based?
Answer: The chemistry that keeps us going is based on carbon-chain molecules. 

We do use water for some reactions but most of it is just solvent for molecules to float around and react in. 

It's somewhat like why we say tea is a plant-based beverage even though it's mostly water. The interesting part isn't the water.

Question: Why do we have speed limits rather than a speed range?
Answer: Because that's the top speed you can safely do, assuming ideal conditions (at least that's the premise).

When it's raining, snowing, cold or dark, this changes it from being ideal conditions. It's not safe to drive at that speed any more. Worse it is, the slower you need to go, especially if your visibility is impaired.

Too much variation in the weather to set a "minimum speed".

Not sure about you are, but here there is a 5% tolerance on our 100kph speed limit - 105 before they'll ping you. (which quite funnily is, in mph, equating to 63mph in a 60)

Question: After the Big Bang, how did the Universe form multiple galaxies and establish order from disorder?
Answer: Simply put, gravity.  And distubances in the uniformity of the universe, which caused there to be larger clumps than in other places.

The universe, at the very beginning, was all energy.  But then the universe cooled as it expanded (much like an expansion valve in an airconditioning system makes happen.)  

This cooling caused matter condensation on the order of quarks, leptons, bosons, that sort of thing... and their anti-matter counterparts.

These annihilated each other.  For matter/anti-matter touching does that. Instant energy.  Nothing left behind.  

But for whatever reason the anti-matter did not outnumber the matter condensate, and so that's the universe we have today, a matter one.(To an outside observer, it might be the 'anti-matter' universe, for we simply label what we see from our perspective.  But that's another discussion.)

Anyway, that caused ripples and disparate distribution in the smoothness of the matter, and because matter has gravity and also an electromagnetic charge to it, this 'clumpiness' caused denser places than others.  

These denser clumps of what later condensated into Hydrogen (H) became big enough to let there be light, as many large and in charge stars came to be born.  These stars were also in bigger clumps, and so they became galaxies.  Probably, possibly, just irregular globular cluster types rather than any spiral or such, at first.

Then the stars, so heavy, so fast burning and blue, blew the hell up and spewed enriched guts (one of my favorite DeGrasse Tysonisims) and energy shockwaves all over the place, causing further disturbances in the smoothness of the universe.  

These then shoved other clouds of matter, hydrogen laden, to be disturbed, form more stars, repeating the process.  Eventually, these clouds of matter also came to have the other elements like silicon, gold, etc, that would allow rocky planets to form about these stars, all due to the over and over cycle of stars blowing up and making more of the heavier elements past Iron (Fe).

And further, it caused more clumping of matter, and that into stars, but those stars were already centered around themselves and their clouds, so galaxies.  And then galaxies ate/merged with other galaxies.  And so on.

But it all, ALL can be traced back to gravity, energy, electromagnetics, and the lumpiness in the distribution of the matter of the universe.  The chaos that begats some semblance of order.  

Speaking of which, I don't find the universe to be very orderly, to be honest.  It's about as chaotic as you can get, my opinion.

Question: can you explain the NFL lockout to me (what it is, why it happened, outcomes of it etc.) LI5
Answer: Ok, im not a big expert but for some reason I'm not seeing most Reddit users as being highly into sports. So basically, just like with every other corporation we have owners (own the team), workers (players), investors (other corporations), and consumer (us). I will break it down as best I can that way. Like all businesses the owners make contracts with the workers. The owners also have a contract that goes over all these small contracts. This contract designates the big things, (percentage of profits, advertising, how long a season is.
**Owners**- (Again, not certain on % but I am quite close). Before the end of the last big contract owners made about 46-48% of total money from the NFL while players made 54-52. The owners did not like this. They are the bosses. This is their investment. So for this negotiation they said they want a higher percentage. Also, each year we have a 16 game season with 4 preseason games. Another concession is that the owners wanted a 2 game preseason and an 18 game season.
**Workers**- The players. Obviously like that they make over half. I mean come on, they are the talent. Without the talent, you have no team to keep making you (owner) money. So they aren't to happy that the owners want more. I believe they weren't for or against the season increase.
**Investors**- These are corporations like Pepsi, or Coke, trying to buy advertising for their company. They want owners to have more money because then the owners might charge less for advertising rights at their stadiums (long shot, not gonna happen). Now the 18 game season, that is what they are interested in. They want this increase. 2 more real games is gold to them. More advertising= more business=more money. Also, corps with deals, such as Pepsi, who sell only their pop during games, make more money. A longer season means more money must be spent to keep their business longer.
**Consumer**- This is really based on your feelings of football. If you really like it, a longer season is good. Now the profit % could affect us. We attend games. If the owners lose money, they are going to charge more for pretty much everything to make up for it. This is bad. Our only concession here is that if they lose money but get a longer season we might not see a big increase as 2 more regular games means 2 more games with a full set of seats, selling merchandise, food, etc.
Hope this helps. I haven't had a ton of time to see the final results. I just know it ended. If its not answered in the morning I will do some research and get you a final result. Hope this helped.

Question: The world can't agree on standard units of measurement for anything except time. H ow come?
Answer: They can and did. ISO standard units called the SI units. Most everyone doing serious business is using them for most everything and have been for a while, non-SI units are just used in day-to-day stuff because people have preferences and it's generally not worth it to, for example, force Canadians to actually measure their mass in kilograms.

Question: We all mostly skip or block ads. What makes companies still believe online ads like on youtube is worth investing?
Answer: "We" is comprised of tech-savvy desktop/laptop users. Mobile users and most internet users don't use adblock, and their revenue makes it worthwhile.

Question: Can someone explain what quantum suicide and quantum immortality are?
Answer: One cat goes into a box, this cat is [Schrödinger's cat](_URL_1_). 

To make a long story short....

 >  He proposed a scenario with a cat in a sealed box, wherein the cat's life or death depended on the state of a subatomic particle. According to Schrödinger, the Copenhagen interpretation implies that the cat remains both alive and dead (to the universe outside the box) until the box is opened.

The reason "the cat's life or death depended on the state of a subatomic particle," is because of the [Copenhagen interpretation](_URL_0_) of Quantum Mechanics.  Frankly, I can't explain this like you're a 5 year old. It's hard, mathy shit. But a non-explanation is...

 > It holds that quantum mechanics does not yield a description of an objective reality but deals only with probabilities... According to the interpretation, the act of measurement causes the set of probabilities to immediately and randomly assume only one of the possible values.

So, how are these related?  The cat in the box only dies when the state of the subatomic particle is known to you.  Until then, it's both alive and dead.


Why is this important?  Because another theory says every possible outcome happens in one universe or another.  This means every time you open the box, the universe "splits."  In one universe, the cat dies.  In another, the cat lives.

So if you repeat the experiment a billion times, in *one* universe, you've got an immortal cat.  Perhaps that cat's consciousness is, in itself, immortal in its own universe.  I mean, living a billion times seems pretty unlikely, right?  That's more of a philosophical position than scientific one, though.

Question: Why is it that plants comparatively much less diverse (only ~250,000 species) than other clades of life?
Answer: I don't know for certain, but think about it:

Plants are sedentary. They find a particular kind of environment that suits them well and, for the most part, stay in one place for their whole lives. They don't need to develop systems that allow for locomotion. They don't need to develop complex tissues and organs that make up that system, nor the vessels and oxygen transport mechanism to ensure the cells in the locomotion system stay energized. They don't require much energy since, again, they stay put; they make their own energy, and it's enough to get by on. 

Much of the complexity of animal life revolves around how they tweak the basic mechanics of moving around. Where does it move? How does it move? What does it require in order to move? How much and what kind of energy does it need? Does it regulate its own internal temperature?

Question: Why do we randomly get this weird/burning sensation in the nose when inhaling?
Answer: Always assumed it was a dry spot where there was no mucous.

Question: how do sinkholes happen
Answer: Have you ever been to the beach and made a sand bridge? You put your arm in a trench and build a tightly packed layer of sand over top. If you carefully remove your hand the sand stays and makes a tunnel/bridge. But if you touch it, it'll fall in on itself.

Well, deep underground there are pockets of water with lots of dirt piled and packed tightly on top of it. The water does a pretty good job of holding up the dirt, like your hand did with the sand. But , sometimes those pockets of water can be drained out over long periods of time or from movements in the earth leaving big bubbles of air. Air is not as good at holding up the dirt, and sometimes the dirt will collapse into the hole like the bridge.

The issue is very common in Florida because of our natural aquifers, big tunnels of water under the ground. The aquifers drain very easily and if the earth moves around too much, it collapses.

You'll often see sink holes filled with water but the principle is the same. It's a lot easier to make a water balloon pop if there is a little bit of air at the top. And once the sink hole pops, all the dirt sinks below and the water rushes up to the top.

edit: fixed fishy typo.

Question: Are mobile ads intentionally the last thing to load while opening a page, so more people would accidentally click them?
Answer: No.

Ads are usually provided by a 3rd party company from their servers, not the same server that is delivering the rest of the content on the page, so they can often take longer to load compared to other stuff on the page. 

They are often also image-heavy, which means they take longer to load than text.

They are also usually inserted into the page using javascript, so that they can load several different ads to different viewers on the same page, or target ads to different users, or track impressions,  & c. The script that loads these ads often runs after other content in the page has loaded, so that the page doesn't have to wait on the ads  &  just display as blank while the ads load (this would lose you a ton of visitors,  &  make the ads worthless because there'd be no visitors to see them once they do load).

Question: why are we producing more aluminium than we recycle if it takes 95 percent less energy to recycle?
Answer: Yes, it would be, but then there would also be a finite amount of aluminum on earth and we would never be able to have more bottles and cans than we do right now. The world is growing and we still have a need for new aluminum. People like airplane manufacturers and NASA need lots of high quality aluminum so they are willing to pay for the good stuff, coke doesn't need anyhting other than tin cans so they likely wont pay a premium for new aluminum and jsut use the recycled stuff.

Question: why are there no comedy categories at the Oscars
Answer: Each awards show has their own thing.  You're probably aware of the Oscars and the Emmy, but there are like a hundred others with their own style and categories.  

However you're not alone in your thinking. Not having a separate comedy category has been a regular criticism of the Oscars.

They tried to assuage this a  bit (and  add some flair and promo to the show) by upping the best picture category from 5 films to up to 10, hopefully to allow more diverse films outside of dramas (such as animated, comedy's, and sci-fi films), but this is still pretty new. They changed the voting on it a bit too, but its unknown if this had any effect on the eventual winners.

In other words... this particular award show does its own thing, just like the others, and this does not seem like something they are particularly interested in.

Question: Why is it when I love someone a lot, that sometimes I have to hug them tightly and it feels like I can't be close enough.
Answer: No answer, but that is fucking adorable. I hope you two have a long happy life of being this in love together.

Question: What benefits (if any) does lobbying provide to society?
Answer: In principle, 'lobbying' just means 'talking to congressmen'. If you have a good idea for how the nation's laws should be set up, or a stake in those laws, you sit down for lunch and talk to them, help them to understand where you're coming from. Others do the same, and then the politician takes a stance.

In principle, once a politician has taken a stance, people will choose their favorite champions to advocate for. They'll talk about them, put up a poster on their lawn, or, if they can afford it, a billboard on a highway, or a radio or television ad.

In practice, our ability to sell ideas through advertising is just way too good. The candidate with the most advertising usually wins the election, so they are forced to pick the ideas that will get them the most money. In part, this is because many of the candidates have the same opinions, and so you'll support the one that 'most famously' holds those opinions. As a result, successful candidates hold a mix of popular and profitable ideas.

It's hard to say how best we can go about fixing this. It's definitely our own fault - in an ideal world, we'd notice that most of the candidates lived up to our desires, and elect the one with the best education or the best combination of little ideas. In practice, though, no one can name what all of the individual policies of all twelve or so Republican presidential candidates are, let alone those of every politician they're meant to vote for.

Other options have included a cap on campaign spending, which would put more emphasis on the debates rather than fund raising. This is a troubling idea though, because it's not clear where that line should be exactly. Do we ban any billboard larger than 3 feet by 3 feet? Seems extreme. Radio ads? TV ads? They all seem like they should have a place in educating people about a candidate's ideas. A pure dollar spending cap? Does it count against the cap if I build my own sign for a candidate and place it on my property? What if I'm a tenant? Is it legal to put it in my front yard? If that's legal, why can't I rent a highwayside plot and put up a huge sign? If I ban radio ads, what constitutes an ad? Can the radio personality express an opinion? The station's opinion? The station owner's opinion? What if someone rents the station for a week? An hour? A 30 second ad spot?

Preventing people from spending money on political campaigns would require us to draw a lot of awfully specific lines, some which may violate the basic rights of free speech. Preventing people from meeting with congressmen to talk about their problems would be even more troubling. While the current state of lobbying is deeply flawed, there's no clear road to fix it.

Question: Why are the stairs of an escalator higher than the stairs of a staircase?
Answer: To give  you better timing to get off the step at the end, and to somewhat discourage you from running up them while moving (primarily for children).

Question: Why does half and half in containers not have to be refrigerated? How come it can be left out for days while milk has to always be kept cold?
Answer: Are you sure you're not referring to non-dairy creamers? Half and half most certainly needs to refrigerated.

Question: Why are smoke shops allowed to sell bongs?
Answer: Next time you go there, look for a sign. There will be one saying "For Tobacco Use Only"

While bongs are commonly associated with marijuana, they are also used for tobacco and in that regard are perfectly legal. By saying they're only for tobacco it protects the stores from the drug laws you mention.

So in order for there to be any legal consequences, people would have to prove that the shop is knowingly selling them for use with marijuana and not tobacco. This is impossible to prove in almost every case.

Question: How does hot water work in hotels?
Answer: While all buildings are a little different, most use a single boiler and a recirculating hot water system.  Hot water circulates in big loops on each floor, driven by small magnetic pumps.  This means the water is "instant-on".  The storage tank is kept warm by the boiler and inflowing water is warmed before it goes into the tank.  This provides constant temperature hot water all day.

Question: How do pornography sites stay in business?
Answer: For the same reason Youtube is allowed to exist. The law determined that these sites cannot reasonably be expected to control uploaded content to such a degree, in other words they cannot be held accountable for copyright infringement *as long as* they comply with DMCA requests and delete videos on demand. This does happen even now, I remember a certain popular account on xvideos/xhamster that got banned multiple times for example. The problem of course is that videos get uploaded faster than they can be taken down.

Commercial porn sites probably have given up on that battle more or less and adapted. Instead, they release "sample clips" in order to advertise for their sites of full HD content. Those commonly 5-minute long vids are just small parts of hour long productions that you usually *don't* get to see.

Question: How am I a W-2 employee, yet do not qualify for any benefits, including unemployment? Details in comments.
Answer: It varies from state to state. One reason could be that you didn't earn enough in at least one of two consecutive quarters. Depending on exactly when your season ends, that could screw you. Or just simply not enough hours.


No matter what the reason, I think you're entitled to a hearing. I'm sure that varies as well, but it's worth looking in to.

EDIT: To clarify, I believe this hearing is like an appeal. If you've applied and been denied, it's an opportunity to meet with whomever it would be and plead your case.

Question: Brief history of Turkey with focus on the modern issues and culture
Answer: Perhaps start with this country profile, it has a pretty ELI5 approach and then ask a more specific question.
[Here's the CIA's Turkey in a nutshell](_URL_0_)

Question: How come Humans can't learn animal languages and communicate to them?
Answer: Because animals don't have language. They communicate emotions with sound like angry growls, panicked screams, horny rumbles, and affectionate purrs, but they can't communicate abstract thoughts, form sentences, assign arbitrary names to objects and events, combine terms to make new concepts, etc, which is what we consider language to be.

A Mandarin-speaker and a Finnish-speaker can communicate anger and fear and happiness and affection perfectly well without using language, right? Just by sounds, tones, movements, facial expressions? Well, that's the level on which animals communicate.

Question: How and Why exactly does encryption work? Dont you need to transfer the key, and couldnt (lets say the NSA) not simply obtain it by saving all your internet activity?
Answer: Nope, because of the magic of asymmetric cryptography. The short version is that the key used to *encrypt* the data is not the same as the one to *decrypt* it.

When Alice sends something to Bob, she encrypts it with his *public* key. This is a key that everyone has the right to see and access. Only Bob, who has the only copy of his *private* key, can then decrypt the message. He then sends a reply, encrypting with Alice's public key, and she decrypts with her private key.

The same sort of thing happens with an SSL transaction (HTTPS). When you connect to a secure site, you know you have the right site because they have a certificate proving they are who they say they are. That certificate is also the public key, so you send the data encrypted with that key, and only that site can decrypt it. The site sets up a special session key to encrypt the rest of the data, so you and the site can continue to talk encrypted without anybody else being able to view the contents of the traffic.

Question: What do degrees (temperature) actually measure?
Answer: At a basic level you can think of temperature as the average molecular energy of a system. Temperature can be measured in different ways, but they all come down to measuring changes in heat energy (molecular motion and jiggling). 

In everyday thermometers, what is measured is how a liquid (originally mercury) expands with temperature, travelling up the bulb. The expansion is due to the atoms in the liquid moving faster and pushing on each other harder.  
In devices called thermocouples, the temperature affects how well a piece of metal conducts electricity, which can be measured precisely.  
There are also infrared thermometers, which measure the heat energy in the form of light that objects give off.

It's important to note that temperature isn't the same thing as energy, but the explanation requires delving into the wonders of thermodynamics, which is a bit too complicated for me to ELI5.

Question: why is seemingly every photo tagged with a “Getty Images” watermark? How big are they? And are they just an image host or do they also employ photographers?
Answer: Getty is huge.  They buy images from existing photographers and then aggressively protect copyright.  I don't believe they employ their own photographers, but prefer to buy images from others.

Question: Why is it such a big deal that it costs more than 1 cent to make a penny? Shouldn't the cost and production of other coins and bills counteract the defecit of making pennies?
Answer: Just because you CAN make up a loss in one are with a gain in another doesn't justify that loss. You could say "sure, I throw away every other roll of toilet paper I buy without using it, but I buy toilet paper at half price." Well, it would be better still to buy that half-price toilet paper and NOT throw any away. There are a lot of other good reasons to get rid of pennies, but I won't bore you by going into them here.

Question: What is fascism and what is wrong with it?
Answer: Fascism is an ideology that has three fundamental tenets: Paternalism, Corporatism, and Nationalism. Each fascist movement was unique, but these three basic attributes are shared. One could also add anti-Marxism to it. 

Paternalism refers to the hierarchical system of fascist politics. The state is the supreme authority, and this is in the people's interests. Liberty is a secondary concern. An apt analogy is the family: in fascism, the state plays the role of a father figure. Again, liberty is unimportant - much as the liberty of a child who wants to not eat his vegetables or do his homework is unimportant. 

Corporatism is more complicated. It has nothing to do with corporations, as known in our society - the word comes from the Latin 'corpus'.  It is the view that society can be divided into concrete groups, known as corporations. Another way to view them is as special interest groups. In a fascist society, people would be represented by these corporations. For example, in government, instead of a Congressman from Michigan, there might be a Congressman for Auto Workers. All Auto Workers would belong to a single union, and elect a representative (or have one appointed). In addition, fascism preaches tripartism. In it, society is divided into two sectors - labor and management - with a third sector, the state, reigning supreme, and being responsible for ensuring neither hurts the interests of the state. This is the most complicated aspect of fascism, and I have not come close to covering it here. If you want more detail, I'd be happy to provide it. 

The final component is nationalism - the idea that a person's national identity is the most important aspect of their personal identity. The nation is supreme, and again, the individual is relatively unimportant. An analogy might be the human body. A kidney, or individual, by itself is meaningless - it is only when it exists in conjunction with the other organs that it becomes a body, or nation. 

Fascism is neither good nor bad, like communism. Some leaders are not seen as positive - Hitler, or Mussolini. Others, more neutrally - Franco. Others still are still regarded positively today by their nations - Peron, or Vargas.

Question: The Argument of "Separation of Church and State" and "Under God" in the Pledge
Answer: Honestly it is primarily for historical reasons. There are two factors in play: First, while the US is not and never was a "Christian nation", at the time of it's founding religion in American was almost exclusively monotheistic. Even people who would probably be atheists today considered themselves deists: that is, they didn't deny there was a  "god", they just didn't think it did anything out of the ordinary. So when the founding fathers talked about having free exercise of religion, they mostly meant what you thought about "god", not whether you actually believed there was one. So a statement like "under God" would have been fairly innocuous to them, since it doesn't actually say anything about what "God" is. It could simply mean what Einstein meant when he talked about God as, basically, the orderly force behind natural laws. Not necessarily a personal deity at all.

However, the real reason "under God" and such came into popularity was when the US started getting involved in a big way in foreign affairs, especially the Cold War. It turned out the US had more/more active Christians than most of the other big countries, especially the USSR which had basically declared itself atheist. So being Christian got identified in the popular culture with being American. So there was a big push to include this new-found "national religion" in popular elements of government propaganda like pledges and currency designs. They seized on the characteristic of the founding fathers I mentioned earlier as a justification that the US had always believed in God, without really paying attention to the changing definition and cultural makeup that had occurred since then.

And the reason we keep it around today is that it's easier to keep things the way they are than to change them, and there are enough people who still think America is a "Christian nation" and enough people who are sort of like the founding fathers in that they don't think the word "god" is a big deal that there's not enough popular support to get it changed.

Question: Why do ice cream taste testers use a gold spoon to taste test?
Answer: How do you define "common spoon?" At my house, I have metal spoons (likely of different metallic composition) and plastic spoons (again, there are all sorts of different plastics).

Using a gold spoon allows for standardized testing and, as you stated, to allow for the most neutral taste test possible.

Question: Why does yellow mustard taste so different from Dijon mustard?
Answer: Because its a different kind of mustard. Full of different... stuff.
 
Different *mustard stuff*.

Question: Why aren't any famous people getting assassinated?
Answer: In terms of political figures like the president, the Secret Service has gotten really good at spotting that sort of behavior, and stopping potential threats long before it's a take a bullet type situation. Not saying it couldn't happen, but it's not usually something an average Joe would do out of the blue without warning, it's pretty much always radicals who are being watched.

In terms of celebs usually it's a crazy stalker who sends all sorts of e-mails and letters and tweets and whatever, so the private security of celebs know who they're looking for and they get tipped off if some nut job is driving across 12 states to where the celeb they're stalking is preforming a concert and they don't even have tickets. Still easier than the president but also less people care/are crazy enough to do it.

I mean you've got to be crazy to kill the president but at least you can make sense of it like with Booth killing Lincoln. He legitimately believed Lincoln was a tyrant and he was a patriot doing the noble and riotous thing. Compare that to that nutcase who killed John Lennon. I mean NOTHING makes scene about that other than he was just some crazy fuck. No real driving motivation like there is with politics.

We also have a lot more medications available for people and a much more effective system of spotting crazies in our society and getting them the necessary treatment.

Question: Did fruit and vegetables evovle too?
Answer: Those are parts of plants and trees and trees and plants did evolve.

Question: Why are denim jeans both stiflingly uncomfortable in hot weather and freezing in cold weather?
Answer: When its too hot you will be hot in jeans.  When its too cold you will be too cold in jeans.

Question: Why are speed caps used by ISP's and how do they work?
Answer: CFAggie isn't really right, that was the case before fiber internet and massive technological feats. I was once studying to be a network engineer, and I picked a few things up.

They do it because they're greedy assholes. I know that's doom-and-gloom to the point of being laughable, but that's why. American and most European internet is very developed and chances are only a minuscule percentage of their servers are being used at any given time. Take a look at the places Google Fiber has rolled in, best example being right where I live. The same day Google Fiber was *announced* (not released, announced they were coming) our speeds went up from 5/1 for $50 a month to 300/200 for $50 a month. The internet here no longer goes out randomly, throttles, or has any other issue.

Internet companies (mostly in the USA) will "buy out" areas so other internet service providers can't lay down wire and the only ISP in that area can keep speeds and reliability in the shitter for sky-high prices.

It's just a regressive business practice. Paying more for the same technology.

Question: the oligodynamic effect (i.e brass doorknobs disinfecting themselves after a period of time)
Answer: The effect is certainly pretty cool. Essentially what is described is that frequently touched materials can gather lots of microorganisms really easily, just because they're found literally everywhere at extremely high levels. When you touch a doorknob, you transfer the bacteria on your hand to the doorknob.

However, the nature of the brass (and other metals including silver, gold and copper) is such that it interferes with the functioning of the bacteria or fungus etc. resulting in the death of the microorganism. It is suspected that the metal interferes with the correct functioning of proteins needed for the survival of these bugs.

Also, an interesting thing to note is that you reference "disinfecting" in your initial question. There is a difference between disinfection and sterilisation; disinfection means that the most harmful microorganisms are killed, but not their spores. This means that there is potential for their survival, for example if they were transferred back to someone's hand from the doorknob. Sterilisation is complete removal of harmful and harmless bacteria and there spores, which is different.

Long winded explanation, I hope that this helps out a little!

Question: I am short-sighted. If I look in a mirror which is close to my face, objects in the distance (in the mirror) still look blurry. Why?
Answer: A mirror is not a picture.  Put your camera in selfie mode and you will see the background in focus, because the camera in your phone is properly focused and the screen on your phone is  a real image.

The image in a mirror, on the other hand, is a virtual image made by reflecting light from the real world to your eyes.  The distance to the objects in the scene is unchanged (maybe a little longer by the distance to the mirror and back).

Question: How do hair transplants work?
Answer: Hair from the back and side of your own head is used. It's not affected by male pattern baldness. They take individual hairs or groups and place them on your bald areas. 
To get more complex, this hair is unaffected by DHT which causes MPB hair loss. Older techniques would use awkward looking groups of hair (ie hair plugs) while more modern techniques take smaller follicle groups harvest from a removed strip of scalp or device that takes individual follicle groups directly from the scalp (called Follicular unit extraction, or FUE). [source](_URL_0_)

Question: Do water filters (like those placed in Brita water pitchers) really make a substantial difference in the quality of the water?
Answer: Lots of people out there live outside of cities, they have water softeners, etc. But still the water is skanky and nasty. So, the britta filter comes to the rescue! It removes sulfer, iron, calcium, nitrates, and other nasty tasting stuff. 

In 3rd world countries they have similar things with silver membranes to kill nasties. Such as the Tata Swach. _URL_0_

The also have micron filters, UV lamps, and various other gizmos.

Question: Why some people would rather help an animal than a human?
Answer: Speaking personally, animals seem more helpless and innocent. I feel like a human could help themselves in a way that a cat or dog couldn't, hence the animal is in greater need of help.

Question: Why are second (and if lucky) third orgasms in a sex session (with a partner or alone) less intense than the first?
Answer: That's funny, my second ones are always way more intense.

Question: The 'Hole Theory' of current flow
Answer: To start, holes are only applicable in semiconductors, you don't just apply them to any circuit you feel like. 


In metals the outmost electrons are in the conduction band. They are free to move. When you apply an electric field (a voltage) they move due to it. 


In semiconductors something different happens. At 0 K (absolute zero) all the electrons are in a valence band. In this band they are not free to move. If you apply an electric field (within reason), they will not budge. At higher temperature or when exposed to light, some of the electrons cross a band gap (or energy gap) to the condition band when they receive energy from heat or light. Once they've done this, they are free to move just like in metals. *But* they left an empty state in the valence band, one that another electron in the valence band could move into without the need for a large energy input. This space is called a hole. 


When you apply an electric field to a semiconductor, the field moves the free electrons in the conduction band, and tries to move the stuck valence electrons the same direction. They can't move, *unless* they are near the missing spot or hole and move into it. The result is we have free electrons moving in the conduction band and stuck electrons moving from their bound spot to another open bound spot in the valence band. It's both electrons moving the same way, but one is a little slower. 


The jumping from spot to spot of multiple electrons is a little hard to model. But if instead we just treat the missing spot as a single particle and pretend it's moving the opposite direction as the electrons, it's much easier. Hence we just treat it as a positive qausi-particle called a hole, and model it as something with the electron charge, but positive, moving with slightly less mobility in the opposite direction. This has nothing to do with a proton, we aren't treating it as one. It's a whole new particle and it's charge is the opposite of an electron, which happens to be the same magnitude as a proton but it has nothing to do with one.

Question: Air pressure in houses? Why do some doors hit a cushion of air when they close, some doors slam when they close, and some doors get sucked closed?
Answer: It's depends on how air tight the room is. You will notice this with doors that are tighter to the carpet and not under cut. Take a door that you can't slam because of this and open a window in that room the air will be forced out the window and the door will close easier. Opening or closing a door rapidly will generate lots of air movement. Without somewhere to go it will be more difficult to close. Undercut doors allow air underneath. Similar to Windows letting air outside. Also to note in commercial buildings many glasses enclosed rooms and others have what's called transfer air duct that as well as allowing air out functionally assist in the same way. Source union sheet metal worker. Duct work.

Question: Why do such well-known companies as McDonald's and Coca-Cola pay tens of millions to be the lead sponsors of the World Cup/Olympics/etc.? Do people really not know these companies at this point?
Answer: A part of it is about securing future customers through positive association. If you are 5 y.o. and love football, and everytime you watch it on tv a big coca cola logo is burnt into your retinas, then you're more likely to prefer it once you're older and actually have some disposable income. Thats the idea, anyhow...

Question: Hospital Fetal Heart rate and Cervix Monitors
Answer: A belt with a sensor is placed around the stomach.  The sensor can tell how hard something is being pressed against it.  The tensing and relaxing of the uterus puts more or less pressure on the sensor, so it can tell what's going on.

Question: The number system of Graphics Cards
Answer: There essentially isn't one.  Within an individual product line from a given manufacturer the numbers may mean something, but mostly they are just the name the manufacturer gave to that video card.  It's all about marketing.

The first number in most cards indicates the "generation" of video card they belong to, but this is still just marketing.  A higher number doesn't necessarily mean more performance.  A high-end GTX 6xx card might outperform a low-end GTX 7xx card, for instance.

Basically, you have to look at the charts.  The numbers are made up to sell more video cards, not to be informative in any way.

Question: Why can I hear a TV from another room, even if the volume is off?
Answer: Although I can't understand what you're saying in the explanation, I think I know what your'e talking about. Old TVs emit a very high frequency noise that is constantly on, even with the volume muted. you might be hearing this from the other room.

Question: I just saw the Bruce Lee kid video, and now I'm curious how nunchaku work. It seems like an inefficient weapon.
Answer: Yeah, they're not exactly great weapons. They're not as difficult as you'd think to use them, but they're honestly kind of a pain, and certainly aren't as effective as many other weapons.

From what I recall of my Asian history though, the reason taht these kinds of weapons exist is because of limited resources. They started out as modified farm tools. A random farmer (especially in Japan) couldn't afford to buy a "real" weapon. The nunchaku is basically just a modified flail; not as good as say, an axe, but you can carry it around with you on a daily basis, and it works much better than just being unarmed.

Question: What does "single payer" mean in the american health care system ?
Answer: "Single Payer" means that there is a single entity that handles all of the insurance payments to medical providers. In this case, that payer would be the government. Instead of multiple private insurers that each cover a small portion of the population and each negotiate their own prices for procedures... we would have one big insurer that covers everyone and negotiates in behalf of everyone for lower prices on procedures. This would allow for lower and more fair pricing as well as universal coverage regardless of wealth or pre-existing conditions.

Question: How is mass extinction humans fault?
Answer: >  Considering most people at that time and prior loved in mud huts

HA!

Humans had already been farming for 9,500 years, living in cities for most of that, China had been a sprawling empire for 4,500 years, Rome had risen and fallen. 

Just because we hadn't built a steam engine yet didn't mean we weren't causing change to the environment on a massive scale, and had been for ages. And one of the biggest ways was with our stomachs - it's likely that human hunting played a major role in the disappearance of all the megafauna species in the new world, starting perhaps 10- to 20,000 years ago.

Question: How are branded drinks mass produced? (Gatorade, Monster)
Answer: There are huge companies out there that you have probably never heard of that make all different components of food and drinks. This includes flavor companies, food coloring companies, salt... pretty much every component on the back of the can was produced by someone else besides the one actually making the drink. So then gatorade has research facilities, pilot plants(kinda like a small scale plant to do trial runs, experiments on a bigger scale) and full scale industrial plants. The researchers figure out the exact formula they want for a product, it gets scaled up once for the pilot plant so they can figure out how to mass produce it and get the engineering kinks worked out and then it goes to full scale production.

At the plant, they have filtered water that mixes with either a concentrated syrup or powder and then its pumped into cans or bottles. Then CO2 can be added and it is sealed and labeled.

Question: what's an API? (computers)
Answer: It's an "application programming interface".  It's a defined set of methods by which you interface with functions and data of a program from another programmer.  E.G. google's API would allow me to submit (programmatically) a string as a search and get back a dataset of results that include descriptive text and url.

Question: Why are Japanese fan content creators so much more strict about their activities in order to avoid copyright issues than Western fan creators?
Answer: Social responsibility. In general, Japanese culture has a bit more sense of morality in respect to the original creators. They don't want to hurt the creators. Theres also this sense in Japan of following the order of things just for the sake of the law. A lot of westerners will do things they know they aren't supposed to, if they think they can get away with it. Japanese I think are more likely to take the "safe" road. 

Lots of generalizations here, but I think it mostly holds true.

Question: Why do my grey hairs pop when pulled?
Answer: Grey hairs happen because the stem cells which produce the colouring die, so that's probably related.

Question: The difference between a parody and a satire
Answer: Parody is imitation. Satire is humorous, constructive, social criticism.

Question: How come—when looking at the light produced on earth VIA satellite imagery, they are always yellow, when in fact, there are lights of all different colors being produced?
Answer: It's not VIA, it's just via, a word. :-)

Anyhow, the answer is simple: most electric lights are actually yellow, so when you look at a lot of lights grouped together from far away, you see mostly yellow light.

Question: Why is insurance handled by private, for-profit companies rather than by the government?
Answer: > and that's definitely not who I would want backing me if I get in an accident.

...except that, unless you were criminally stupid when signing a contract, in this particular case you get to sue them, i.e. get the government involved. Under capitalism, the government is the policeman, not the entire economy.

Question: How do tunnel builders know where they are going?
Answer: i dont know anything about that specific project, but in general there is an engineer that surveys in the centerline of the tunnel using a theodolite (_URL_0_).  you basically move a known point down the tunnel using the previous point along the centerline as a reference.  you offset each point from the actual centerline so that you can mark the actual points with a nail along the tunnel wall, out of the way.

Question: How exactly do Saline pools work?
Answer: Salt water pools still use chlorine, the difference is that the chlorine is produced through electrolysis using the salt as the base material. The advantage is that the salt electrolysis process creates free chlorine ions (the type of chlorine that kills bacteria) and burns off chloramines (the type of chlorine that burns your eyes and smells like strong bleach). As long as they are maintained they will work just as well at killing bacteria, and people tend to find them less irritating, especially if they have sensitive skin. The salt system also has the benefit of "softening" the water. They tend to have a higher initial setup cost though, and saltwater is more corrosive than freshwater so you have to keep an eye on the internals and plumbing of the filtration system.

Question: Why did I just pay $250 for a passport with a 3-week turnaround, when a driver's license is $25 and take 30 minutes?
Answer: A driver's license is a state-issued document accepted by state governments certifying your identity and ability to drive. 

A passport is a federally-issued document accepted by international governments certifying your identity and travel eligibility and history. 

Whereas you can get away with a temporary driver's license printed on a DMV receipt printer, a passport has a LOT of liability tied to it and basically is your country insuring you as "This person is a Normal Person" 

The cost comes from the legal backing, as well as whatever background checks they need to run on you

Question: the upcoming "dairy crisis"...Is the Dept of Agriculture really "required" to purchase milk from farmers? And what will they do with it once they buy it?
Answer: It's not extortion... it's protectionist agricultural policy and the agricultural lobby (including [American Farmland Trust](_URL_4_)). Every five years Congress is expected to pass another temporary law regarding agricultural policy known as the [farm bill](_URL_5_). Our current bill, the [Food, Conservation, and Energy Act of 2008](_URL_1_) was passed despite Bush's veto in 2008.

The pentannual farm bill basically allows short-term control over the policies implemented by previous agricultural legislation dating back to even the Dust Bowl and Great Depression. For the most part, these are aimed at maintaining "farm income stabilization" and maintaining stable cheap prices while helping farmers stay afloat, despite intense international competition (see "protectionism").

In particular, the Agricultural Act of 1949 (an example of *permanent* agricultural legislation) implemented something known as the [Milk (now Dairy Product) Price Support Program](_URL_0_), which put into place provisions for a a type of *price support* in which the government agrees to purchase enough milk to reach some set goal so that agricultural processors and vendors reach a target revenue, allowing them to pay comfortable wages for farmers.

The goal was to allow farmers to be able to make a high income and shield them from sources of volatility (like natural disasters). The original 1949 legislation agreed to keep the prices for milk products between 75-90% [parity](_URL_3_), so that farming would remain profitable and we could rely on our domestic agricultural sector in the future. The [idea behind parity](_URL_7_) in this context dates back to the era before World War I, thanks to the earlier statisticians who recorded data on the prices of agricultural goods and other commodities, and centers on the idea of "fair" exchange value:
 > “Parity”, as ap-plied to income from any agricultural commodity for any year, shall be that gross income for such year as the average gross income from such commodity for the preceding 10 calendar years bears to the average gross income from agriculture for such 10 calendar years.

Now, in October 21, 1981, the farm bill known as the [Agricultural and Food Act of 1981](_URL_6_) switched to a system in which Congress began to target specific price levels or rely on expectations for surplus, instead, overriding provisions of the 1949 law. The 2008 Farm Bill was the first to explicitly implement price floors on dairy products rather than merely milk:
 > * For cheddar cheese in blocks, not less than $1.13 per pound;
* For cheddar cheese in barrels, not less than $1.10 per pound;
* For butter, not less than $1.05 per pound and;
* For nonfat dry milk, not less than $0.80 per pound.

Now, the problem is that these price floors turn out to be much lower than those found using the 1949 parity provisions thanks to economic growth. Unfortunately, the 2008 farm bill expires in 3 days, on the 31st, and unless a 2012 farm bill emerges quickly, these price supports will revert and the government will find itself keeping milk at a very high cost, crowding-out consumers.

[This is not the only reason why the farm bill is needed, however.](_URL_2_)

Question: What are the differences between major (competitive) Fighting Games and how they are played competitively? Mortal Kombat, Street Fighter etc.
Answer: It's kind of like the difference between Cricket and Baseball.  There's some similarities, and skills in one will have some transfer-ability, but to really excel at one, it takes focusing on that one game.  There are all the little nuances that one game has that others don't.  

For not quite ELI5 level explanations:  the current incarnation of Street Fighter focuses very heavily on extremely careful spacing.  A major factor is also so-called "vortex" characters.  Essentially, they attempt to find an attack that allows them to get a knockdown and then can make extremely ambiguous attack setups that lead into more knockdowns, quickly snowballing to a win.  Mortal Kombat has many strings of attacks that are "safe".  Essentially, if the series is blocked, the series is safe if you can block before your opponent can retaliate.  As such, the goal is to space yourself so that your opponent will miss if they attempt to hit you with a "block string".  It's pretty much universally easier to punish someone for missing an attack than for forcing you to block.  Several characters with teleporting moves also means that traditional full-screen projectiles are significantly weaker.  

The latest Killer Instinct is kinda like Mortal Kombat in that most characters have relatively safe block strings.  However, the mechanics of the KI combo system and the counter system adds a nuance to the game that rewards players that study all the characters in the game carefully.  While one player is in a combo, the player being hit has opportunities to "break" the combo by inputting an attack of the same strength as the attacker.  If the defender guesses wrong, they're locked out from breaking combos for a certain length of time.  The attacker can also fake an attack during a combo and, if the defender attempts to break the feint they are locked out as if they pressed the wrong attack.  A defender can also perform a "shadow counter" at the expense of some of their super meter while blocking.  Essentially, it allows the defender to immediately retaliate while blocking.  However, you can be hit out of your counter attempt, so attempting to counter a fast hitting, multi hit move often results in getting hit in the face if you time your counter wrong.  

I'm not a big fan of it, but Marvel vs Capcom 3 is a game where movement is everything.  There are several unblockable setups in the game, and characters move and attack very quickly, so even blockable moves can be difficult to consistently defend against.  Each player has 3 characters on his team, though only 1 is controlled at a time for each player.  Other characters can be called in as an assist where they will attack with one predetermined move, then jump back off screen.  You have various ways to exchange which character you're controlling during the match, and the game doesn't end till all characters on one team are defeated.  The game is extraordinarily momentum heavy.  For many teams, a single hit can lead to a combo that will KO a character.  

Tekken Tag Tournament 2 is a 3d fighter.  Characters can move on the X, Y, and Z axis.  As such, the emphasis is on both proper spacing (like all fighting games) and on mixing up whether an attack hits high or low.  While you have 2 characters on a team, you lose the round as soon as one of them is knocked out.  

Dead or Alive 5 is a 1 on 1 3d fighter, but other than that, I can't tell you much.  I've never really played the game, so can't give much more info.

Arc System Works games: I'm gonna lump these together.  If you hear of a game as an "anime game", chances are it was made by Arc System Works.  Their games tend to feature characters with extraordinary mobility and overly complicated motion requirements.  Apologies to any fans, but quarter circle forward, half-circle back is absolutely stupid as a motion for one move.  The games reward aggression and to some degree outright punish passiveness.  Characters generally have lots of ways to move around: double jumps, dashing while airborne, etc.  To be honest, the games can look kind of chaotic if you don't have someone to explain what's going on.  The overall plan is to dart quickly in and out of attack ranges trying to either catch your opponent flat footed or to bait an attack that you can dodge and counter.  The newest game and one you're most likely to see is Guilty Gear Xrd.  If you're wondering about the name, the previous games were Guilty Gear X and Guilty Gear XX.  They were smart enough not to release Guilty Gear XXX.  Regardless, the marquee option to the GG series is the "roman cancel".  At the expense of some of your super meter, you can cancel anything that your character is doing.  The character stops whatever animation they're in and instead goes to the Roman Cancel animation which is very short.  One of the more common uses you'll see is a character throwing a projectile attack of some sort, then performing a Roman Cancel after the projectile is on screen.  This allows the attack to dash in behind the projectile and gain some cover as they approach to attack.  

Smash Brothers:  I'm going to be super generic here, as each version is pretty significantly different.  The major thing to these games is that a character isn't knocked out simply by receiving damage.  Instead, the goal is to knock the opposing character to a certain point beyond the edges of the screen.  As a character receives more damage, they get knocked farther back by attacks.  In general, the game plan is to build up damage on your opponent until you can send them flying with a single good hit.  

If you watch Combo Breaker (a big fighting game tournament) over this Memorial day weekend, you may come across one other weird game:  Skullgirls.  Like the Arc Systems and Marvel vs Capcom series games, it generally features high mobility characters.  However, unlike most other popular games now, the game rewards players for shorter combos with frequent resets.  A reset is when an attacker intentionally stops a combo allowing the defender to "reset" to a neutral state, then immediately restarting their offense.  This gives the defender new opportunities to defend themselves, but good resets are designed to be ambiguous as to how to properly defend against it.  
If you watch Combo Breaker, you should totally watch this game, it's fun.


EDIT:  Just as a last note, I just covered the games you're most likely to see when watching a tournament stream plus Skullgirls since 1) I like it and 2) it's featured at a major tournament this weekend.  There are a ton of games, and many older games have held onto a following years after it's sequels have come out (I'm looking at you Marvel vs Capcom 2 and Street Fighter Third Strike).  Fighting games are like wines.  There are a million varieties.  Some good, some bad, and everyone has different opinions on which are best.  There's nothing wrong with someone liking a pinot grigio over a Bordeaux merlot.

Question: Why is financing a car through a bank cheaper than financing through the dealership, even though dealerships have lower interest rates?
Answer: Quite often, its not.  Many times you can combine a rebate with incentivised financing and end up much cheaper than your bank.

For example, my wifes 2012 altima is currently financed at 0.5 percent and we bought it several thousand below invoice due to rebates/dealer incentives.  No banks/credit unions were anywhere close at the time. The cheapest was around 4% at the time.

Where dealerships get you is with all of the add-ons like extended warranties, window etching, undercoats, etc and you will get offered those regardless of whose financing you use.

Question: how come we don't yet know the perfect diet for humans?
Answer: There isn't one. It would vary person to person and even to some degree day to day per person.

Question: What are the rules of Australian Rules Football
Answer: Well, I'm not an umpire but i do regularly watch the footy, so ill have a crack. The ball isn't really considered dead like in American football and generally the rules allow for the game to be a free flowing as possible with limited interruptions in play. It was based around and is relatively similar to Gaelic football and was invented over a hundred years ago. here a few of the main rules so you can better understand the game.

The basic premise is to kick the ball through the two large goal posts at your attacking end. getting it through the two big posts scores you 6 points, get it between either of the two smaller posts and one of the bigger ones only gets you one point. you have to kick the ball through for it to count. 

there are two methods of disposing the ball within the rules, kicking or handballing. handballing is where they punch the ball out of one hand using the other. failing to properly handball is called a throw and loses you possession of the ball. 

If you catch a ball that has been kicked more than fifteen metres (approx. 45 feet) by anyone from either side, then it is called a "mark" and that stops the play. taking a mark earns you a free kick, you cannot be tackled and you can kick the ball without being tackled so long as you don't advance beyond where you took the mark and you kick within the allowed time (not sure how long maybe 30 secs?). handballing, stepping beyond the mark or just running away from the mark continues play and you can be tackled. to run with the ball you need to bounce it at least once every (12?) steps.

you can tackle opposition players as a means of acquiring the ball. the tackled must not be a trip and must not be above the shoulders. any tackled that is not allowed should end up with the victim (lack of a better word) either getting a free get or they are allowed to advance the ball 50 metres (150ft). they don't get to choose by the way, its awarded contextually by an umpire (as i understand). if the player that is tackled fails to dispose of the ball as a result of a tackle (the ball is trapped under them or they are just not letting go) it is called holding the ball and the tackling player is awarded the ball. if you tackle someone who doesn't have the ball the it is holding the man and free kicks etc.

sometimes when an infringement occurs but the opposition is all ready on their way and the ball gone already, the umpire will call "advantage paid" meaning they will not punish the infringer as the infringement resulted in opposition advantage anyway and its not worth stopping play for it. 

as i said, these are just a few of the basic rules and im not an umpire, just a fan ( i welcome any corrections btw, just chime in). i hope you understand the game a bit better now :) and ask if you need anything clarified.
hope you enjoy the game as much as we do down under!

^carn ^^the ^^^bombers!

Question: Why do aeroplanes/airplanes have headlights?
Answer: >  Why do aeroplanes/airplanes have headlights?

Aircraft commonly land at night when it is dark. Being able to see the ground when coming in for a landing is important because they need to touch down at a reasonable speed.

So not to put too fine a point on it, they are so the pilots can see when it is dark. You know, like with regular car headlights.

Question: Why do i sleep better when its cold?
Answer: The temperature that your body sleeps at is lower than the temperature your body maintains the rest of the day, this is for energy conservation and obviously to let your body rest. Simply put, keeping the temperature in your room lower may help your body to achieve this lower resting temperature. This makes falling asleep and staying asleep easier.

Question: How if I have some software that requires a product key that you must pay for, that many people can use the same key?
Answer: There are two ways that a product key can be validated.  The first way is that the program "phones home" to check that the key is valid, and is tied to your account.  This type of validation means that the same key can (usually) only be used once.

But the other way that a key can be validated is if there is some algorithm that generates valid keys, and that can verify that a particular key is valid.  For example, maybe keys are generated by taking your email address, appending some fixed string of letters to the end (known to the program, but not to you), and then feeding the resulting string through a hashing algorithm (which is a sort of one-way function that generates a unique-ish "fingerprint" of a bit of text or a file).  The resulting hash is your product key.  

In this case, it's super easy for the program to verify that a given email address + product key is valid, because it just takes the email, appends the secret string to it, and then hashes that to see if the resulting hash equals the product key you entered.  This has the advantage of not requiring an Internet connection to activate the software, but does make it vulnerable to re-used keys.  I've seen some companies that make the credit card number used to purchase the product part of this process to discourage sharing of product keys (since you'd also have to share your credit card number).

Question: How does a contagion spread from contact with an open wound to the target organ in the body ?
Answer: Generally through the blood stream or the lymphatic vessels. When a contagion attacks a specific organ I.e. Hepatitis, it is because something about those cells allows that particular pathogen to attack/reproduce better than they do in other cells. They don’t move towards that organ specifically, they just keep getting pumped through the bloodstream until they find a good place to start reproducing, or they’re killed by the immune system

Question: Why can some people smoke and never get addicted, while other are addicted for life?
Answer: Not everyone is equally susceptible to addiction to cigarettes.  I can chain smoke for a few weeks and then just stop for a few weeks without it being an issue.  I'm not sure why that is true for me but its possible it may be because I was around second hand smoke a lot as a child.

Question: How does a state minimum wage increase impact people?
Answer: Essentially minimum wage increases due to inflation, inflation is the concept that money isn't worth as much as it used to, and therefore you need more of it (imagine your grandpa saying "back in my day it cost a nickel for a loaf of bread" bonus points for reading it in an old man voice)

But what happens is that the cost of everything increases, but the amount of money people have stays the same, meaning that to maintain their standard of living, they need to increase their wage.

But of course, this means people now have more money, and people will be willing to raise their prices accordingly, causing inflation causing the circle to go round.

It's what happens when you have a currency that is arbitrary, in the sense that it isn't tied to anything solid, like a resource, ie Gold Standard.

Question: Why do trained muscles get more volume rather than density?
Answer: Skeletal muscles are the muscles that you use for voluntary movement like your arms, legs, etc. They're made of myocytes, which have a limited ability to divide. Other cells in your body constantly divide, like your skin or the inside of your mouth (these are known as epithelial cells). 

When a cell is stressed out, as in it receives stress from either hormones, exercise or something rubbing up against it, etc, it'll adapt in order to take more stress. Your muscles can't divide, so they undergo hypertrophy or get bigger. Your skin cells divide more to compensate (hyperplasia) but they also secrete more keratin. 

Why do they have a limited ability to divide? It just comes down to the fact that they're highly specialised. Generally, the less specialised the cell is, the more it can divide. Stem cells, or pluripotent cells are not specialised at all, but they can divide endlessly and become any cell in the body. Myocytes, cardiomyocytes (heart muscle), and neurons are highly specialised cells and have very poor ability to divide. it's why heart attacks are so bad, and why spinal damage doesn't heal properly.

Question: Why was the European Union created?
Answer: Also, food-security. During the world wars food would be a scarce resource. The EU subsidizes farmers in the EU so they can compete with cheap food from outside the EU which was made with a lower wage for the workers.

Question: In US, when a city is divided into two states, if a crime occurs in a part of city and the criminal is caught in different part of city, Is he also violated Federal Interstate laws?
Answer: Only if he committed the crime across the line.

For example, if I knock over a Quickie Mart in KS, and then flee to MO I've only committed a crime in KS. If a kidnap a guy in MO and take him to KS now I've committed a crime in both states as well as federally.

Its the cross-border nature of the crime that is important, not where the criminal is located.

If I knocked over the Quickie Mart in KS *from* MO that'd be federal too. I don't know how I'd manage that though :P

Question: what happened to the hole in the ozone? Did we fix it, is it still there, was it never that big of a threat?
Answer: We found replacements for chlorofluorocarbons and drastically cut down the rate at which we released them into the atmosphere. The holes are still there but have stopped growing and are on the path to recovery.

Question: When I put pressure on my eyes for an extended period of time I see really cool patterns that alternate. What is that?
Answer: your eye is full of liquid called the vitreous humour. when you press on your eyes, you're increasing the pressure of that fluid inside the eye; that in turn causes pressure to be applied to the nerves in the back of your eye, on your retina. those nerves get confused and start sending out random signals that you see as cool-ass patterns.

Question: Why is Saudi Arabia an ally of the USA?
Answer: Saudi Arabia has oil and wants money.  
USA has money and wants oil.  
It's pretty much as simple as that.

Question: How can Brick and mortar retailers continue to exist with online competitors
Answer: Somethings need to be touched or experienced.   They can also do onsite repair and warranty work for value add

Value add is the key.  The appeal to niche markets or do something that email and returns isn't quite comfortable

Would you buy a house online?

Question: Why does the shower water become hotter when someone flushes the toilet?
Answer: your water heater heats water to anywhere from 120 to 180 degrees F.  So in order to keep you from burning yourself cold water is mixed with the hot water to make a comfortable temperature.  when a toilet is flushed it pulls a few gallons of water.  thus, limiting the amount of cold water available to cool the shower.

Question: Do uncontacted tribes know we're here, like we are aware of their presence?
Answer: My impression is that most of them are aware that some kind of big, huge, technologically advanced world exists, but they don't know shit about it. 

Commonly they are uncontacted because they want to be: being contacted tends to screw them over. (They flee from contact, or hear rumors from neighboring contacted tribes.)  Either they have few useful skills and end up in the bottom of the heap of capitalism, or they get massacred by brutal 3rd-world mining and logging companies. 

OTOH, they likely have very little idea of the scale or workings of industrial civilization.

Question: Why things glow white when they got real hot
Answer: When anything is above 0 kelvin, it produces thermal radiation as its particles bump around and change energy levels etc. Thermal radiation is electromagnetic radiation. Light is electromagnetic radiation at a very specific range of wavelengths (see the electromagnetic spectrum for more detail). So thermal radiation can be seen IF it is being emitted at the right wavelength. The good news is that most bodies emit thermal radiation over the entire electromagnetic spectrum, roughly following this [graph:](_URL_0_)

As temperatures increase, The thermal radiation has more energy. This means a higher average frequency (or lower wavelength) for the thermal radiation. Eventually enough of the thermal radiation is in that specific wavelength of the electromagnetic spectrum we call visible light to make it appear to glow (about 700 C, 1300 F). Colder than that and while it emits a small amount of visible light, it isn't enough to make it glow.

The lowest frequency part of that visible spectrum is red. The highest part of that spectrum is blue. So as it heats up, it changes from glowing red (and mostly a mix of radiation below the visibility), to a mix of red and blue (and some above and below the visibility), to eventually some blue and only a little red (and mostly above the visibility spectrum). 

The mix of red all the way through to blue will eventually look more and more white as it heats up, because it will contain all of the colors of the visible spectrum (which together look white, think reverse prism). Once it gets even hotter, that white color will take on a blueish tinge, then get more and more blue.

Finally it will be almost completely completely blue. So blue - >  white - >  red - >  invisible for how hot- >  cold a body is.


This is also why you can "feel" hot things at a distance, because your hand is absorbing some of this thermal radiation and heating up, even if the surrounding air is cold.

The suns electromagnetic radiation is centered at about 500 nm wavelengths (smack dab in line with our "visible light"). It makes sense that our eyes developed to be sensitive to the largest concentration of electromagnetic radiation we received. If our sun had been a little colder, chances are our "visible light spectrum" would have developed in a higher wavelength, part of what we call infrared light. In case you were wondering why our eyes can only process a certain range of the electromagnetic spectrum.

Question: Why can't we just gargle an antiseptic to get rid of a sore throat?
Answer: Because the source of your sore throat is not lying around on the surface of your throat, but within the soft tissue surrounding it. Its like saying that washing your chest with a bar of soap should alleviate a chest cold.

Question: With the recent "Infinity Table" posts, can someone explain how they work?
Answer: First, let's explain what a "one-way mirror" is:

It is not a mirror that only reflects light going in one direction. It is a _partially reflective mirror_ that allows some light of either direction to go through, and reflect some light of either direction.

What this means in practice is that depending on relative lighting conditions, it may appear to be a window or a mirror. An example of this would be your house window - on a bright sunny day, you have no trouble looking out. Someone outside, however, may see a reflection. This is because the glass reflects some light, and transmits others. Since the outside is _so_ bright, a large amount of light is reflected back to the observer outside. This overwhelms any light that is transmitted from inside to outside. The indoor observer, on the other hand, as a lot of light transmitted _into_ the window, so any reflected light is drowned out by the transmitted light.

You will notice the reverse at night, when you have lights turned on and outside is dark. Now the indoor observer will see a lot of reflection, and the outside observer has no trouble peering in.

Alright, so knowing this now, how does the infinity table work? The bright lights within the table makes the inside bright. Some light gets leaked out to your eyes - that's what you see. Other light gets reflected to the bottom mirror, which gets reflected back. Some of _that_ light reaches your eye, but another fraction gets reflected back to the bottom mirror, and so forth. That's why you see many copies - and that's also the reason each reflection gets dimmer and dimmer - some light escapes, and other is absorbed. Only a fraction is reflected each time.

It has nothing to do with projected images.

Question: Why are PIN codes not needed for online transactions?
Answer: Credit cards and debit cards, historically, worked with different banking networks and were developed with different mindsets. Credit cards chose to focus on signatures in the early days, while debit cards chose to use PINs.

With that history, though debit and credit cards have sort of merged into a very similar style of transaction, they still hold onto some of the early designs for how those networks operated. There hasn't really been a need for changing the way credit cards worked, and introducing PINs for those cards would be a very big change that people probably wouldn't be happy with.

---

There are some more details in an answer to a similar question here: _URL_0_

Question: What is an orchestral conductor doing, and how can everyone follow what he's doing regardless of what instrument they have?
Answer: He's keeping time. Each swing of the arm is a "tic" in the temp of the piece which all musicians, regardless of instrument need to keep in synch. He can also make larger or smaller movements to indicate changes in volume. And he will cue sections or individuals for specific parts of the piece that highlight that musical voice.

Question: Why can't governments print "temporary" money to cover important expenses?
Answer: They do, and it causes inflation because the money doesn't have any material value behind it.

Money is just something we use to represent value. Without creating the value, the printed money isn't anything more than paper, which in turn, makes every piece of money less valuable.

Question: Why can humans eat almost anything, yet so many foods like chocolate, grapes, and xylitol are dangerous for dogs and other mammals?
Answer: The premise of your question is basically flawed. We can't eat almost anything. About half of the red berries in existence are poisonous to us but not to birds, for example. The same is true about mushrooms.

Also, not everything that is edible is food. Uncooked grains are edible, but you would eventually die if that's all you ate. OTOH, if you cook it into bread, you're pretty much good to go.

Question: Why are Americans more or less complacent with the income inequality in their country?
Answer: >  It seems like people are ready to bitch about how somebody is literally Hitler for collecting food stamps 

This is, unfortunately, the most successful way to *get* the extreme calcification of economies. When you blame the poorest and least powerful people for all the economic problems ('welfare queens') and put the rich on a pedestal ('job creators'), you get people fighting each other and ignoring the big issues. And because people are emotional, they want an enemy that is readily available and will make them feel good after getting some hits in on, not an enemy that appears untouchable and is difficult to have victories against.

There are identity politics and self-worth issues at play here.

Question: How are those huge cranes that work on skyscrapers setup/made taller/moved to really high floors?
Answer: They're modular and self-assembling. The first structural piece under the rotation head, the lifter module, is more complex than the rest; it includes slides and jacks. The complete assembly process involves anchoring the base and setting up the horizontal arm. Once that's ready, the lifter module jacks up the head and the arm, and the crane lifts a structural segment off a truck and into place. Once the new segment is bolted in, the jacks retract and are bolted onto the new top structural segment. This process is repeated until the crane is as tall as it needs to be.

Disassembly is the same process in reverse, with a caveat. If there is more than one crane involved, they may build around a crane within the building, so long as at least one crane is outside to lift out the pieces. The last crane, however, always has to have enough clear space to disassemble itself in the same process in reverse that it assembled itself with.

Question: Why is cooking wine not regulated in stores like regular wine is?
Answer: Its not intended to be consumed as alcohol.    Vanilla extract is well known way for minors to get alcohol.

Question: Making cocaine from the coca leaf.
Answer: this is about as simple as it gets 
from: _URL_0_

How Cocaine Is Made

Cocaine

Cocaine is a highly addictive stimulative drug that is manufactured from the leaves of the coca plant. It is classified as a central nervous system stimulant, but pharmacologically it is considered an anesthetic. Cocaine is a drug that increases alertness, feelings of well-being, euphoria, energy and feelings of competence and sexuality. Anxiety, paranoia and restlessness are some of the side effects of the drug. It is the most abused major stimulant in America and the second most popular illicit drug used in the USA behind marijuana.
Cocaine and the Coca Plant

Cocaine is a naturally occurring alkaloid found in certain varieties of the Erythorxylum genus, or coca plant. Of the 200 species, only 2 contain significant levels of cocaine. The plant can grow in widely varied climates and soil conditions, though the highest cocaine content is found in plants that are grown in higher, cooler climates. Cocaine is harvested from the leaves of the plant which are continuously stripped from the plant. Once stripped, the leaves are typically dried until brittle or transported immediately to an illicit laboratory. If the leaves get wet and begin to rot, they will be unusable.

Cocaine is synthesized from the leaves of the coca plant to form a paste. This paste is further synthesized and cut with adulterant substances to make it into street-level cocaine that can be injected, snorted or smoked. To make the paste, there is a process of extracting the cocaine that includes the use of toxic chemicals. There are two main ways that the cocaine paste is made: solvent extraction and acid extraction.

Solvent Extraction of Cocaine Paste

The first stage is to finely chop the leaves and dust them with lime or carbonate salt along with a small amount of water. Some manufacturers will use a leaf mulcher to complete this process, others will do it by hand. Next kerosine or diesel fuel is then added to the coca leaf and lime/salt mixture and vigorously stirred for up to three days. This removes the cocaine from the leaf into the liquid. Occasionally this is done using a washing machine or cement mixer. Poorer manufacturers will do this by hand.

Once the cocaine has been extracted, the liquid is heated to remove any wax from the coca leaves, then filtered to separate it from the vegetable matter. There will typically be a large amount of liquid that is then mixed with sulfuric acid and mixed again. The acid converts the cocaine free base to cocaine sulfate. The mixture is allowed to sit to allow the separation of the cocaine sulfate which is then mixed with lime or caustic soda. The addition of these chemicals neutralizes the sulfuric acid and the filtered chemical is a gummy, yellow solid. This paste is dried, packaged and shipped to a further laboratory for further extraction and handling.

Acid Extraction of Cocaine Paste

The leaves of the coca plant are placed in a pit with diluted sulfuric acid. The leaf and acid mixture is vigorously macerated by workers who will typically stomp the mixture for up to 2 hours. The acid in the pit will convert the cocaine in the leaves to cocaine sulfate, which is removed and then heated to remove the waxy residue. It is then filtered to remove the remaining plant matter. The liquid then has lime or carbonate added to it, and is stirred vigorously, resulting in a curdled coca paste. The curdled mixture is mixed with kerosine and then re-filtered to isolate the paste and further processed with more sulfuric acid.

Coca Paste to Street Cocaine

Once the coca paste has been extracted and produce, it needs further processing to change it into the product that is ingestable. This is primarily a purification process. The coca paste is dissolved in a small amount of dilute sulfuric acid and potassium permanganate is added. This chemical is a powerful oxidizing agent that reacts with the impurities in the coca paste and changes the color of the coca paste from a yellow-brown color to a colorless or faint white color. The resulting colorless, acidic solution is filtered and treated with ammonia to neutralize the sulfuric acid.

The cocaine product is further dried to convert it into cocaine hydrochloride. Cocaine hydrochloride is the street product that is a white, crystalline powder with a bitter taste and numbing effect.. Cocaine loses its potency in other forms and it is also less soluble. Cocaine must be water soluble so that it can be injected, otherwise the drug can be in clumps when injected which can lead to cardiac arrest. As cocaine hydrochloride, which is a salt, the drug can be both injected and snorted and is absorbed into the blood-stream easily.

Typically, cocaine hydrochloride is cut with other products before it is sold on the street. Adulterant substances are used to increase the volume of the drug and increase profits for dealers. The substances that cocaine are cut with can include non-toxic items such as talc, bicarbonate soda or glucose to harmful chemicals such as amphetamines and levamisole.

Converting Cocaine to Crack Cocaine

Crack cocaine is the most potent form of cocaine. Crack cocaine produces a very intense high that is often associated with repeated use of the drug and intense energy, hyperactivity, aggression and paranoia.

Crack cocaine is made by converting cocaine hydrochloride into a solid form of freebase cocaine. This is done by cooking cocaine hydrochloride with sodium bicarbonate or ammonia. The result of the cooked cocaine is a jagged chunk of crack cocaine. In this form the drug is typically smoked by heating it in a glass pipe and inhaling the vapor.

Question: Why are Dolphins considered to be smart/advanced?
Answer: They have communities, basic communication skills, they understand death, they have sex for fun and rescue creatures that are in danger.

Question: During the Middle Ages, what would happen if a country invaded another, and the invaded country couldn't afford to fight so it surrendered, but the invading country kept on fighting?
Answer: That's not really how treaties work. Treaties aren't like "you get to keep all the land you've taken," they always specify very exact borders. If Country B truly had no will to fight, they would have given up all of their land (which is basically what an unconditional surrender is). If Country A didn't take advantage of the situation and got a treaty that wasn't as favorable as it could have been, tough shit; they should have thought of that before they signed the treaty.

Of course, they could just break the treaty. There weren't any real international institutions in place to enforce that sort of thing, but you don't really make any friends with a reputation for breaking promises.

Question: How does the "brace" position in aircraft emergencies protect us?
Answer: The position places the body in a way where the damage to the body will be minimized.  

_URL_0_

this is the result of not bracing.  Bracing minimized the forces to the body

Question: How are brain aneurysms diagnosed and treated?
Answer: Brain aneurysms are usually asymptomatic. The only time that they can otherwise be diagnosed is if they grow large enough to start bleeding, which can cause severe headaches, a lot of uncontrolled vomiting, and in other cases, they can compress the surrounding structures and nerves in the brain and cause a dysfunction there.

Doctors can also suspect aneurysms in susceptible individuals. A family history of aneurysms, certain heart defects, connective tissue diseases such as Ehler-Danlos syndrome, or kidney diseases such as Polycystic Kidney Disease also are known to be associated with brain aneurysms.

In any case, the only way to know is through imaging, which can be done best by MRIs that allow you to see the blood vessels, or other forms of imaging such as a CT with a special dye that marks blood vessels clearly.

The idea of using platinum coils in an aneurysm is that they loop around several times inside the wall of the aneurysm, and trigger blood clotting in that area. Once the aneurysm clots over completely, there's very little chance of it bursting or bleeding out.

Question: Why can certain types of batteries be recharged when others cannot?
Answer: Non rechargeable batteries are based on an chemical reaction that is not reversible.

Edit: electrically reversible that is.

Question: The US has more youth playing soccer than any other nation in the world. Why don't we have our own Messi?
Answer: We have a lot of kids who play soccer, but the vast majority are in recreational leagues, not serious youth development programs like Messi went through. Those are growing along with the domestic league, though - the MLS Academy system just started four or five years ago.

Question: Would increasing the minimum wage and setting a maximum wage strengthen the middle class?
Answer: Because this is entirely speculative and subjective it's been removed.  Try /r/futurewhatif instead, or /r/askreddit instead.

Question: (As an American) Why is freedom of speech protected from the government, but not corporations?
Answer: The Freedom of Speech does not grant you the right to say whatever you want, whenever you want, it merely prevents the GOVERNMENT from restricting your right to free speech. When it comes to private institutions, they are free to set their own rules regarding things like speech, because you always have the option to not use them. 

You are still allowed to keep your right to free speech, Tumblr is simply denying your ability to use THEIR website to do so.

Question: Cosplay; is it just done for an event? Does one wear their outfit on multiple, random occasions? Is it just made for the photos?
Answer: It's usually for a convention, which will run for several days. Some people wear the same costume to multiple conventions, others make a new one for each one.

Question: If there are concentration camps in North Korea that are similar to those found in Germany during WWII, why hasn't a military force such as NATO intervened?
Answer: This is asked a lot, but here it goes.

North Korea would react violently if any force tried to offer aid to those in the camps.

If North Korea acted violently, there would probably be a war.

If there were a war, China would be upset. China doesn't want millions of refugees and nuclear radiation at it's borders.

Question: Why is mercury the chosen substance for determining the temperature?
Answer: We actually don't use mercury anymore, we use alcohol.  But the simple answer is because as a liquid metal it is conductive, and expands and contracts predictably (importantly, linearly) with temperature changes.  Further, unlike water, it's freezing point is low enough there is little change of that happening, and even if it somehow occurred it wouldn't make the thermometer explode as water would.

Question: How do women's menstrual synchronize if they spend a lot of time together?
Answer: They do not. It is a common misconception. They will occasionally *overlap*, in the same way as if you watch a bunch of cars with their blinkers on, but they don't synchronise.

Question: Why do lights and stars sometimes appear to have points sticking out of them?
Answer: If you are thinking of photos then they are called [diffraction spikes](_URL_0_) and are caused by the wires that keep a mirror in place.

Question: I am confused about how many KB are in 1 MB. Some sources seem to say 1000 and others say 1024. Which is it?
Answer: 1024, 1000 is rounded out, u don't say "hey that burger is 1,99" you say: "hey that burger is 2 dollars"

Question: What would happen if a male took female viagra?
Answer: The active component of Viagra is nitric oxide, it has the same hormonal effects on males and females which lead to the sex specific responses. So, an erection for men.

Question: How has the sloth been able to survive natural selection for millions of years without predators wiping out the species.
Answer: Sloths tend to stay in the trees, The only real predators they could have in their environment tend to stick to the forest floor.

The biggest threat to their species are of course humans though, Several varieties of sloth all over the world have actually gone extinct mostly from human interference or hunting.

Question: Why are people so drawn to shiny things like minerals and gems, especially to the point where they're used in things like fine jewelry and crowns?
Answer: Shiny things are usually rare and/or valuable. We put them with other shiny things as a show of wealth or status, like the British Crown Jewels or the Hope Diamond.

Question: What does growth mean in terms of a countries economy?
Answer: The way I learned economic growth, the ways economic growth is measured is by increasing the production capacity the country has (or, in other words, produce more stuff, which then brings in more money when the country exports it). War is famously known to help production (although it also has its downfalls), as the government wants every ounce of resources it can get to produce weaponry and other goods, and hence WWII is usually credited with officially ending the Great Depression.

There's also growth that's caused by better quality of life for the residents, such as technological advances (such as from horse-and-buggy to cars), increased literacy rates, decreased poverty rates, lower unemployment rates, better environments, etc. With these, people are more eager to spend money rather than to spend (such as the "world is ending" mindset many people had during the last years of the Cold War in the '80s), and of course, with more spending, there's typically a healthier economy which leads to more growth.

Question: please ELI5 what the sound is when i put a cup near my ear
Answer: [Source](_URL_0_)

The cup (or shell) amplifies the ambient noise, which is the thing you hear.

Many people believe it's an echo of your blood, this can easily be disproved. Try to exercise and put the cup to the ear. The noise is no louder, even if you hearth is beating faster.

Question: Why do you often feel to hot/cold when you want to sleep?
Answer: Your body temperature decreases to initiate sleep.  The recommended temperature for a good night’s sleep is 60 to 67 degrees.  That’s a lot lower than what I think most houses are at right now.  So if your house feels too warm and you’re noticing it when you lay down for bed that’s probably why.  I know the first sign every year for me to break out my a/c is when I lay down at night even though it was most likely hotter during the day

Question: Is it possible to make an app that is a scale for an iPhone? Since we have pressure sensitive touch, is there a reason we can’t have it measure just how much pressure for small items?
Answer: It is entirely possible and definitely a thing, such apps and sites did pop up when 3D touch became a thing with the iPhone 6 release, but IIRC Apple labeled the use of the phones in this way a liability and these apps were removed from the app store, but some websites are still around such as TouchScale.

Question: when is space where there is nothing but emptiness, what do rocket engines thrust against that make them move forward?
Answer: The rocket engines push against the exhaust that is being expelled.  For every action, there is an equal and opposite reaction.  It's exactly the same as if you were wearing ice skates (standing on ice, obviously) and holding a bowling ball.  If you throw the ball forward, you'll slide backwards.  This is not because the bowling ball is pushing against the air.  It's because when you push the bowling ball forward, you're also pushing yourself backward.

With a rocket, the exhaust from the engines is the bowling ball.

Question: Why does the law allow companies to purchase or merge with other companies? Why aren't all purchases/mergers viewed as a consolidation within an industry and a step closer to monopolization?
Answer: Having a monopoly is not inherently bad or illegal. What is illegal is using your control over a market to stifle competition. That's when the government steps in and companies are broken up.

Question: Why doesn't the United States FDA create a daily multivitamin they approve of?
Answer: Vitamins are not food and they are not drugs. They cannot regulate them because currently they do not have the authority to do so. They (or some other part of the government, I am not sure) would have to reclassify all vitamins to make them a drug and therefore able to be regulated. 

Edit: Also the FDA does not make any drugs, they regulate the companies that makes drugs. I am not sure how the FDA changing the classification of vitamins would magically make them more beneficial.

Question: Why is Quebec still French speaking?
Answer: >  why is it the only French speaking region of Canada?

It's not. It's only the only province where French speaking people are a majority.

 >  How come since Quebec was British owned and subsequently part of an independant Canada, English was not able to replace French?

To avoid uprisings, the British accepted that it would keep its laws, language and religion thinking they would eventually assimilate. People decided they wouldn't and made efforts to preserve those. To this day, Quebec still works on a different legal system than the other provinces.

 >  Is French still realy the dominant language of Quebec?

Yes.

 >  Do most people speak it there?

Yes

 >  What are the languages though in school/shown on tv/ radio etc.?

School teaches some English but not enough to qualify as bilingual. Media produced in Quebec are in French.

Question: Why does rain make people tired?
Answer: It's probably a combination of reasons.

Humans like to be awake all day and sleep all night. And we take our cues from the sun. If it's raining it's darker, so our bodies think, hey almost time for bed! Let's get sleepy!

The other reason is ( I'm not to sure about this one so other redditors feel free to debunk me! ):
When we're in our mommy's belly we're constantly surrounded by the sound of her body, her digestive system gurgling but mostly the sound of her blood circulating. Which is a constant rushing sound. Rain kinda sounds like that, just like a rolling car, or vacuum cleaner. This makes us feel safe and comfortable. And again sleepy.

Fun facts about this: If you drive a long way and don't have any distracting sounds like a radio the sound of your car can cause 'highway hypnosis' causing you to relax and fall asleep behind the wheel.

Babies, when they're tired fall alseep very easily in the car or when a vacuum cleaner is running. Because it reminds them of being inside mommy's belly.

Question: How come if I put a lot of pressure on my fingers or toes (i.e. rest my head on my hand) they go "numb" and lose all feeling?
Answer: You reduce the circulation dramatically meaning the blood isn't being supplied to the cells including the nerves and therefore they shut down. Restore the circulation and they start up again deluging you with all your missed messages.

Question: If nuclear waste is the biggest concern over the power plants, why couldn't/wouldn't we just launch the waste into space and into the sun to dispose of it? Or even just into space. Isn't there plenty of radiation there, already?
Answer: The rule of thumb, (I think according to Phil Plait's book), given current technology, the estimated cost for launching something into space is roughly the cost of the weight of that thing in Gold, and the cost to get it to the moon would be the weight in diamonds. 

To be more mathematical, according to this sourced Yahoo [answers page](_URL_2_) the cost is about $5,000 per kilogram to get something into orbit.  

Now, getting something into orbit is not enough, since orbits decay and that would just put the junk right back on earth.  Likewise, that $5,000 is based on a space plane that isn't going to scale quite the same.  But, combining those too let's say it only costs twice as much to get material permanently out of earth's orbit. (my guess is I am off by an order of magnitude)

The U.S. generates 2,300 metric tons of waste [per year](_URL_1_).  That's 2.3 million kilograms. At our unbelievably conservative estimate, that means the minimum cost for launching that material into space is 23 billion dollars per year, just for the United States.  For comparison, NASA's budget in 2012 was 17 Billion dollars. 

for comparison:
 > It’s been estimated that Yucca Mountain – the United State’s current plan to store nuclear waste – will cost about $58 billion to store waste over the course of 100 years.[space.](_URL_0_]

that's only 5.8 billion per year. 

And, that's without considering the risk of an accident.  Imagine the impact if a rocket full of metric tonnes of radioactive waste exploded two miles above the surface of the earth, spreading highly radioactive material over an enormous area. 

***TLDR;*** It is too expensive, and too dangerous.

Question: Why does smoking preserve food?
Answer: Smoking by itself is actually insufficient to properly preserve foods. Smoke is an antimicrobial and an antioxidant but only protects the outside of food, so it is usually combined with other processes like salt-curing and drying which protect the interior of food from bacterial growth.

Question: Why when you stare at a moving pattern for an extended period of time and then look up, why everything's wavy.
Answer: The conscious image of the world is not a direct input from your retinas. Your brain does a lot of processing to make sense of the world before your consciousness gets the image. This happens for many reasons! Your brain is built to recognize edges and borders, which helps us pick out hiding predators, prey, dangers like snakes, and tree branches to grab during [brachiation](_URL_0_). You're wired to detect faces and emotions conveyed by the expressions. Your brain automatically fixes colors based on lighting and shading. And, most importantly for the thing you're describing, your brain predicts what it should see and adjusts the picture accordingly.

It takes time to process the information from your eyes, recognize the image, make sense of it, put it into context, deliver it to your consciousness, and act on it. It's really damn fast, but it's not instantaneous. To make up for that, your conscious picture of the world is not what your retinas see, it's what your brain a few milliseconds ago thought you should be seeing a few milliseconds later. That puts you in the "present", or at least, a very good approximation of the present.

When you're staring at the moving bottle caps for a long time, your brain gets used to the movement and predicts that the movement will continue. This is great, because it lets you track the moving objects better, since you're anticipating it instead of trying to catch up. When you look away, though, your brain is still predicting movement, and adjusts the image accordingly. Since those things are *not* moving, they appear to wave as your brain predicts their movement, then corrects for the fact that they didn't move, then predicts they'll move again, then corrects again, and so on until it catches on to the fact that things aren't moving through your field of vision anymore.

Question: Why are Saturday morning cartoons idealized? What’s so different about them as opposed to other days’ cartoons?
Answer: Way back when there weren't multiple channels whose only purpose was cartoons. There was a MARKET for cartoons, but not a huge market. What day and time are kids most likely to be available year-round to watch things marketed towards them? Saturday mornings. During the week they're in school. Sundays, might have church. Later in the day Saturday, might have family activities. Parents might even try to sneak in a little sleep by sleeping until 8 or 9, and kids might be able to get up early and watch cartoons.

Question: How do television stations know how many people are watching/ How do television ratings work?
Answer: Each TV has a tiny camera in it that is always watching you watching TV.

Question: What is CERN and what real problems can it cause?
Answer: CERN is basically trying to find out the origins of our universe and how everything works by using a very large particle accelerator to accelerate particles to 99.99991% the speed of light and have them collide with one another. When these particles collide they break apart and that is when we can see what holds particles together and how things work. Only problem is that there is years of data to go through and experimentally proving everything will take a long time. 

There is no real threat from this, what you see online is just that, "conspiracy theories." People believing that smashing particles will create a black hole and destroy the world.

Question: How can someone just walk away from a home loan?
Answer: That wasn't a cause of the subprime mortgage crisis, but more of a result. But that's too much to get into here.

Walking away isn't without consequences. You will get a big mark on your credit rating, which won't go away for 7-10 years, meaning anything dependent on your credit score (including some forms of employment) can be harder than it would be otherwise. New car loans, buying another house, etc may be impossible for 7-10 years.

A mortgage is a "dead loan", meaning that when the underlying security is recovered (the home), the obligation from the borrower is complete. Other type of secured loan don't have this feature, and it's possible for you to get a loan, secured by some security, be unable to repay it, have the security taken and sold, and still be liable to pay the outstanding balance.

So if you bought a house for $200K, and the subprime mortgage crisis hit, dropping home prices in your area so your house is now worth $100K while you still owe $150K, your choices are (a) Keep paying your mortgage for your $200K house, (b) sell the house for $100K, and immediately owe the bank an extra $50K you probably don't have, or (c) walk away, let the bank foreclose, and deal with the consequences.

Ideally, you'd do (a), but if home prices are falling because everyone in your area is losing their jobs including you, or your mortgage is structured in such a way that your payments jump (more on this later), or for some other reason you need to move (congratulations on your new promotion, half way across the country), then you can't keep paying the mortgage, and have to do one of the other choices. Walking away suddenly seems like your only choice.


In the leadup to the crisis, there was a high investor-side demand for mortgages to invest in. The banks sold complicated financial products to investors based on mortgages that were virtually guaranteed to not fail. Business was good, and the banks sold a lot. This meant they had to have mortgages to sell to investors, so they really pushed home ownership and writing mortgages on homes. This lead to some really bad mortgage lending practices that were not good for the borrower at all. A lot of crappy mortgages were written -- these are the "subprime" mortgages.

A "prime" mortgage must meet certain rules: no more than 80% of the assessed value of the property, the borrower can't have too much debt already, etc. Any mortgage that doesn't meet these rules is "subprime", and have a higher risk of failure. So the subprime mortgage crisis immediately implies that a lot of risky loans were being written. Loans that were interest-only for the first 5 years (so a 6% loan on a $100K house would only have payments of $500/month for the first 5 years), but jumped after that. Loans that were structured to be 5 years long, with a large balloon payment at the end, adjustable rate mortgages with a very low intro rate but jumped high after 5 years, etc. The supposed idea was that since home values always went up, a good subprime borrower would, after 5 years, qualify for a prime loan and could refinance on better terms.

When housing prices fell, the subprime borrowers couldn't refinance, and the whole thing fell apart. Homeowners lost their homes, investors didn't get paid on their investments, etc.

Question: What is the process of photographers when taking pictures of the supermoon?
Answer: There's really not much to it beyond needing that longer lens to zoom in more. Since the moon is being lit up by the sun the exposure times are just like taking a picture of anything outdoors in the middle of the day so it can be a handheld shot.

Think of it like wanting a picture of a specific person's face in the other side of a football stadium. As long as you have a lens that gets you close enough you can get the image you want.

Question: Gas octanes?
Answer: The biggest misconception is that there's "more power" or something similar to higher octane gas.  This is not true.

In essence, higher octane means it's more stable and less easy to burn.  

Why does this matter, and isn't that kind of counter intuitive? It matters because many of the ways engineers improve an engine's performance requires a more stable fuel.  

One common example is higher compression ratios.  So when your motor compresses the Air/Fuel mixture in the cylinder, the more it compresses that mixture, the more power it will get when it's ignited.  However, with more compression (pressure), the mixture is more likely to ignite *before* the sparkplug actually ignites the fuel.

If you use a low octane fuel, it burns more easily so the chances of you getting premature ignition of the mixture is higher in a higher performance engine.  With a higher octane fuel, the mixture will be more stable and burn less easily under higher compression.  

The reason it matters in this case is that if your mixture explodes in the cylinder early, you will damage your motor depending on the severity.

If your car calls for premium, you should put premium in it.  If it doesn't, you shouldn't.  In either case, putting in the "wrong" fuel will negatively affect your car's performance.

Question: Why do we drink cow's milk instead of human milk?
Answer: Human females can't produce the same quantities of milk that female cows can. It wouldn't be very profitable.

Plus, notice that we mostly drink milk that comes from animals that like to graze on grass, like cows, goat, and sheep. Humans eat a lot of junk food and other stuff that doesn't make for very good tasting milk.

Question: In Sci-fi movies, why are alien organisms almost always silicone based?
Answer: Silicon is the other element other than carbon that would form long complicated bonds that life could evolve around. Though it is almost certain that another life form would be carbon based this gives a way of creating a "totally new life form".

Question: LI5, the current patent controversy between the top tech companies Google, MSFT, Apple, etc.
Answer: Before the 80s software was covered by copyrights instead of patents where unless you copied something exactly you were not liable to be sued for stealing someone's ideas. However large companies wanted more protection of their software and after some court cases including some at the supreme court they changed the rules and started allowing patents of software ideas rather then just a copyright on the specific code.

The idea was that it would give inventors and programmers more incentive to come up with new ideas as they would have more legal protections from having their ideas stolen. However because patents can be very vague they ended up issuing patents to lots of things that maybe were not new concepts, such as "transmitting data over the internet". 

So instead of encouraging innovation it led to companies getting issued patents for simple things everyone did and then sue each other for "stealing" ideas. Also some lawyers saw that big software companies would just payout settlements to avoid going to court and decided to just sue every company with big money with the hopes of getting a fat payout to make them go away. 

So now companies will pay lots of money for the patent rights for stuff that should not have been patented in the first place just so they can say "if you sue me for patent infringement then I have patents also and will sue you right back!". It is a huge mess.

Question: How are games cracked?
Answer: The executable files of a game are basically just a bunch of machine code. Machine code are instructions executed by your computer. 

By using a so called Dissassembler, you can turn the machine code into a somewhat human readable format called "Assembler language".
If you are good, you can then analyse the code and modify to circumvent copy protection mechanisms, e.g. by taking the copy protection code out or jumping over it.

Question: How carbon dating works
Answer: Assume carbon ratios in living organisms within an environment are constant (perhaps it may vary for terrestrial vs. marine). The ratio only remains constant for that orgnanism while the organism is alive (just assume this is due to respiration). Any change in the "known constant" and the currently measured value yields a number of years since the organism died.

Question: Why is it taking them so long to come out with the oculus rift consumer version, when they developed it nearly a year ago, and came out with the development kits nearly two years before that?
Answer: My thoughts are because it is supposed to be a game changer(literally) and to release anything sub par could potentially hurt the concept and make it take even longer for people to get interested in it again, I for one would be extremely disappointed if it was clunky and didn't work as good as I'm imagining it will.

Question: Why do different cheeses made from the same type of milk have different Calcium values?
Answer: It basically comes down to pH value of the whey and it's drained. Casein is bonded by calcium phosphate (which is where the calcium comes from) and as the pH decreases it becomes soluble and is drained away.

Question: Why does water cause a near perfect hexagon bokeh on camera lenses?
Answer: >  Basically, how is this caused, and why the hexagon bokeh is always perfectly shaped?

Both of those answers are because it is the shape of the lens aperture of the camera. [This link shows what structure is causing the shape.](_URL_0_)

Question: what causes that distinctive smell from electrical transformers, such as model railways? Somebody once told me it's ozone, but why would that be produced?
Answer: You get the same thing from lightning strikes.  The electric potentials involved have enough energy to break the bonds in ordinary molecular oxygen (O2) and some of the free oxygen atoms can reform to ozone (O3).  You need energy to do this because it tends not to happen spontaneously, as the O2 molecule is a more stable molecule than O3.  The voltages provide the energy for the reaction to occur.

Question: How does insane Clown Posey have such large following, who are willing to do anything for the band?
Answer: Because persons are smart, people are dumb

As some comedian said,  imagine what average, I mean totally middle of the road intelligent, person is like.   Now realize that HALF the population is dumber than that.

Question: - if pi is in between the number 3 and 4 how can it be infinite?
Answer: It is *not* an infinite amount. It is less than 4.

In *does* take an infinite amount of digits to explain precisely what the amount is, but that's about being precise, not about being huge.

Question: ELI5:Why is it that a small animal will run up to a big animal and fight it and the bigger animal will run away? Do animals not know their size?
Answer: Because the question in the wild is not so much if you win, but if you get injured. If the large animal stands and fights, yes, it might kill the small animal, but maybe the small animal takes a chunk out of the big animal's leg. Then the big animal has a gimped leg, can't run, can't catch prey (or escape other predators), and it likely dies.

Question: How did the idea of weekends come to be?
Answer: Henry Ford has been credited with creating the weekend as we know it today.  Apparently the normal work week used to be six days, and Sunday was the day of rest.  When Ford was paying workers $2 per day (maybe $2.50, not sure), the going rate at the time, there was lots of turnover and constant hiring and training, so Ford decided to double the rate to $5 per day to reduce turnover and keep employees instead of constantly training new hires.  At the same time, he also decided to make a five day work week to give his employees Saturday off, thinking they would buy more cars to ride around in for the weekend.  The local business community told him he would bankrupt his business.  The day after he ran a full page ad in the paper for the $5 per day jobs, there were massive lines of people applying for jobs with Ford.  The idea was extremely successful, and the weekend was born.

Question: "morning hands"
Answer: When you sleep, your brain releases chemicals that essentially paralyze you so you don't hurt yourself by moving while you dream. They take a while to wear off though.

Sleep paralysis is an unpleasant side effect of nightmares and waking up while the chemicals are still in effect.

Question: What do medals in the Olympics actually do for the winner? Also, what happens if a country wins the most medals?
Answer: They don't "do" anything.

Medalling is proof that you are among the best in the world at your sport. That can help you get sponsors and endorsements, and it can help you leverage a post-sports career in something like journalism or broadcasting if you play things right. But there are no special privileges or anything that come with having a medal.

Question: Why is there so much apparent public criticism against labor unions when they empower mostly low to middle income workers; who make up the massive majority of workers?
Answer: The media is owned by corporate capital and has been shifting culture from progressive collectivism to ineffectual individualism for decades on purposes. The real opposition to Obamacare is not over its actual impact on the economy or personal freedom, it is about squashing any impulse towards collectivism or solidarity and replacing it with self-defeating individualism. "Organized capital and vertical monopoly GOOD and organized labor BAD." Progressive movements are floundering in iterative intersectionality and back-biting while capital prospers unopposed.

Question: Why is there so much focus on colonizing Mars and not an equal focus on colonizing the Moon?
Answer: Mars has a number of advantages over the moon, although some of them are still in the speculated-but-not-confirmed category.

Mars has a lot more natural resources than the moon that we can use. Things that are on both, like ice, are more abundant on Mars and there are a number of things not present on the moon at all - notably, an atmosphere. Although the Martian atmosphere is *very* thin compared to the Earth, there's still enough to it that we can use the C02 to convert it into breathable oxygen for settlements. Over centuries, we might even be able to terraform it into a breathable atmosphere. Having an atmosphere also helps a tiny bit for landing things on Mars, as parachutes are an option to assist (although nowhere near as useful as on Earth, retrorockets would still be very much needed). The moon does have an advantage of much lower surface gravity (roughly half that of Mars), but while that makes it easier to get there, it would make permanent settlements less comfortable. Over time, humans in low-g environments develop weaker skeletal structures and muscles, so in the long run, the higher Martian gravity (compared to the moon) would be a good thing.

Then there's the environment itself. First, Mars is a little better off in protecting the surface from solar radiation than the moon because of distance from the sun and its atmosphere. Again, it's nowhere near as good as Earth, but it's still something. But more importantly is dust. Because the moon has no atmosphere, it's dust is *much* more abrasive and tends to wear out moving parts much faster. Martian dust has been worn down by wind, so it's not as abrasive.

Finally, there's the human element - two key factors, really. First, we've been to the moon. It's old hat. Mars is a brand new place we've never been... that gets people more interested. But also, Mars is another step *outward* and away from the Earth. Colonizing Mars shows, much more than the moon, than humans can survive elsewhere in the galaxy with minimal support from the Earth.

EDIT: I forgot to add the day/night cycle. This is important because solar is probably going to be a primary source of electricity for a settlement, as it's one of a very few methods of large-scale power generation that doesn't require large amounts of liquid water (as coal, natural gas and especially nuclear all do - although some forms of solar also do), and wind isn't a great option because of how thin the atmosphere is. The Martian day is only 40 minutes longer than an Earth day, providing a similar day/night cycle. This is important to solar because you only need to store power long enough to get through the night. Contrast it to the moon, which has a 29.5 Earth-day long day. That means night on the moon is about 2 weeks long (dependent on where you are, of course), so you would have to store enough electricity to get through those two weeks. That would take a *lot* of batteries.

Question: Why do doctors stop applying a defibrillator after a couple of tries?
Answer: Same reason you don't keep turning the ignition key for hours in your car when it won't start -- there's no point in doing it, it won't get better.

Question: How is it possible to program a computer? How can a clunk of metal understand lines of code?
Answer: At the very lowest level, modern semiconductor **transistors** are pieces of lead and silicon arranged so that putting a current on one electrode allows current to flow between the other two electrodes. By itself, that might not sound significant, but think about what happens when we make transistors control transistors.

A transistor can be said to be "on" if current can pass, and "off" if not. The beauty of having these two states is that we can use the **binary code** to store numbers using only on/off states ([explanation](_URL_0_)). Another important thing is that these data points, individually referred to as **bits**, can be stored on wires (low/high voltage), hard discs (magnetized/inert spaces), optical disks (dots/dashes), or cards (slots/blanks). Now, as you can see, there are ways of using massive arrays of transistors to store numbers. Then, using the properties of the binary counting system, we can easily make circuits that add or subtract stored values from each other and place the result in a new memory slot.

Let's get more complicated. A computer works by inputting a stream of bits that form numbers into a vast network of transistors, which do mathematical operations and then spit out new bits. The job of the programmer is to feed the correct bits into the computer's memory, so that they get manipulated by other transistors into the desired result. However, you can see how this is impossible on a modern computer with billions of transistors all connected to each other. Thus, we need **programming languages** to make shortcuts for us. Instead of individually feeding bits into the processor, we can feed it decimal numbers and operations (+,-,*,/). When the program is executed, those decimal numbers get turned into binary numbers (by a circuit that does just that purpose) before being run through the processor that performs the operation and returns a number (that then is converted back into decimal format). 

But modern computers have millions upon millions of memory slots, and we can't do useful stuff with just raw numbers. The purpose of programming languages is to "hide" tedious tasks like writing binary numbers and organizing memory so that the programmer can concentrate on **human-understandable concepts** like decimals, words, colors, sounds, etc. For an example on how this works, look at [ASCII](_URL_1_). Each letter is stored by the computer as just on/off states on the hard drive or in the transistors, but with enough of these bits we can store entire books in ASCII or Unicode. Everything we push into a computer gets converted into easy-to-understand easy-to-store binary numbers before it gets manipulated by silicon transistor circuits.

Question: How is it possible that we are able to find planets far away form the Earth (like Kepler-186 f or PSR B1257+12) but we don’t know if there are other planets in our solar system?
Answer: The way we find these planets is to monitor the amount of light coming from a star and then see if it drops slightly occasionally.  If it does then that means the star is partially obscured by a planet transiting across the front of it.  

We do not have that perspective on planets beyond the orbit of earth as there is nothing bright for them to obscure.

We cannot see them with telescopes because they are too dark and/or distant to detect, the best we can do is look for slight changes in the orbit of objects we can see (such as Pluto) to see if they are being affected by the gravity of something unknown.

Question: Can someone explain how and why Mark Rothko's work is considered art and how I can appreciate them?
Answer: Have you ever seen a Rothko in person? It makes a huge difference. First and foremost, they're BIG paintings. Second, he always wanted people to look at them up close. IIRC he said the ideal viewing distance as 18" (45cm). When you're that close to a huge painting, you literally can't see anything else. Your entire field of vision is consumed by this intense color field. The color kind of radiates on to you. Rothko's work was important because it was a pretty big influence on this notion of "pure expression" or "direct experience". It doesn't operate through language, symbols, or cultural understands. It's mean to be just something you feel, free of associations with anything else. It's important to note that Rothko isn't just important for making this kind of work, but also for talking about it quite extensively. Rothko was a very famous painter even before he started making abstract paintings, and he was quite popular and well respected. His transitions from representational and abstract works, along with his public writing/teaching/lectures/etc. on the subject makes him an enormously important figure in the history of art and the development of contemporary art theory.

Question: Smartphone "rooting" and "crapware."
Answer: "Crapware" refers to all of the pre-installed apps that you don't want, but the device will not allow you to uninstall.

"Rooting" means basically taking control of the device in such a way that you can do things that it normally doesn't permit you to do, including uninstalling "uninstallable" apps.  The term comes from UNIX operating systems, where, aside from the normal user accounts, there is a "root" account that has absolute permission to do anything it wants, and will not be restricted in any way by the operating system.

Question: Why do radio stations only end in odd numbers?
Answer: Because of the way radio technology works.

The station you pick isn't actually what you are listening to, you're listening to a range or band of frequencies, rather than just one.
The name of the channel is based on the range of frequencies assigned to it, in terms of the actual frequencies being broadcast to make that channel.

However, it's much easier to call a station 101.1 than "101-101.199" or what have you. 101.1 lies in the middle of the band so it makes more sense than other possibilities

Question: ; Bohr vs Einstein puzzle solution.
Answer: The correct answer is that you have the same amount of B in A as there is A in B.

Consider this: each container has 100 units of liquids A and B. The ladle can carry 10 units. In the first scoop, you have 10 units of A in the ladle. You transferred it to container B. Now Container A has 90 units of A. Container B has 100 units of B and 10 units of A.

When you take a scoop from container B, you have about 0.91 units of A, and 9.09 units of B (since that solution is 10/110 liquid A). You add this to container A. Now container A has 90.91 units of liquid A, and 9.09 units of B. However, container B still has the same proportion of liquid A and B after the first mixing - namely, 10/110 liquid A, and 100/110 liquid B. This translates to 9.09 units of liquid A, and 90.9 units of liquid B.

Question: What does repertoire area mean within classical music?
Answer: Your repertoire is the body of works that you have learnt and are able to perform. You may have one or many pieces in your repertoire. 


In this context, it sounds like you are being asked for pieces of contrasting style, or from different periods in the history of classical music. If you fulfill the latter, then you pretty much automatically fulfill the first - for instance you could have four sonatas from the Classical period, and you would have to strive hard to make sure they all offered contrasting elements. Or you could choose four different sorts of pieces from the Classical period and show the variety that was present in just one period. Or (and this seems like the safest bet), you could choose four pieces from different periods and they would almost certainly provide plenty of contrast. I'm thinking in terms of Renaissance, Baroque, Classical, Romantic, 20th Century, and Contemporary/Modern periods. There is no end to the variety of different styles and types of work since the 20th Century.

Question: Why won't Mitt Romney release his tax returns?
Answer: Look back on the past two elections:

2008: McCain only released 2 years of tax returns.  He didn't get heat for it.  Nobody cared.  He was rich, and was attacked for being rich.  Remember his wife's comment about not knowing how many houses they owned?  But only releasing two years of tax returns didn't matter.

2004: Kerry wouldn't release all of his Vietnam service records.  He was pounced on, with the attitude "Obviously he has something to hide."  The attack worked, it weakened his support.  He lost.  Everyone still believed he was hiding something.  Later, Kerry later released all the remaining service records.  Turns out, Kerry wasn't lying at all.  He didn't have anything to hide, and he was telling the truth all along.  He said he didn't release them earlier because he felt it would be wrong to cave to opponents' requests.  

Now here we are in 2012, apparently having forgotten recent history and created new standards. 

I'm going to state something anathema to Reddit.  Perhaps Romney is...telling the truth.  What if he doesn't want to release them because he believes in some privacy?  That is most definitely a possibility.  But Reddit seems to reject it. 

The ultimate answer is, we just don't know.  Only Romney himself knows.  All this speculation about what he *may* be trying to hide is the same crap that created problems in 2004.  And if you think we should be upset about it now, why didn't we care in 2008?

Question: When a small child cries, they often start with the initial cry followed by a long-ish pause, and then they start crying again. Why the long pause?
Answer: They need to take a breath for their next cry. Longer pauses adds more intensity when the second cry hits.

Question: How do brands manufacturing non-concentrated, natural fruit juice keep the taste constant?
Answer: I'm not so sure they do. I drink apple juice, grape juice, and orange juice and I notice they do change in taste year in and year out and also season in and season out as the source of the fruit changes as seasons change in different parts of the world. So answer is, they don't control it. Some batches are better than others.

Question: When people talk to animals or babies, why do they tend to talk in a high pitched cutsie manner, and never talk like they would normally?
Answer: The heck where are the comments? 

The behavior is called mirroring which we humans have accepted as affectionate behavior. When babies babble in their cute high pitch voices,  we also babble back. 

When cats miaow, we miaow back. Same with kittens

Question: Why can you not see deleted comments with a permalink, but you can see deleted threads with one?
Answer: Threads tend to be deleted because they break some subreddit rule (no joke posts, post must be a question).  Comments tend to get deleted because they break Reddit rules (doxxing, copyright infringement).

Of course, either can be removed for the other reason.

Question: Why do big bags of chips have zero trans fats but the smaller version of the exact same chips contains trans fats?
Answer: Because according to FDA regulations, any foods that has 0.5 g of trans fat or less PER SERVING can be labelled as trans fat free.

In big bags of chips, the manufacturer can jiggle the serving size so that each serving will have less than 0.5 g. But small bags of chips are generally considered to contain only 1 serving, and so they can't divide out extra servings to screw with the numbers.

Question: How do you move?
Answer: Our brains learn how to move, and eventually store the information in our "muscle memory"; the stuff that's so familiar to us, our mind can essentially take shortcuts to use it. This is why acrobats can do gymnastics that other people would never be able to perform, even though their actual muscles aren't necessarily any stronger. It's also why babies can't write. When we're very young, we first learn to grip things with our entire fist, then we have to learn to turn over, then we have to learn to crawl. Writing with a pen and pencil takes a certain combination of muscles that we have to consciously learn before we can unconsciously repeat.

Question: Why does China, India, ect. have so many more people than the rest of the world?
Answer: Fertile river valleys that create a lot of good agricultural land. The same reason that the Nile delta is so much more populous than most of the rest of the area. There are lots of other similar examples around the world. 

It's also worth noting that China and India are *big*. In terms of land area, China is actually larger than Canada.

Question: Is burping/belching something you get better at with practice?
Answer: Straighten your esophagus. Back straight. Shoulders back. Use your lower abdominal muscles to apply pressure toward your spine then upward. Relax your throat. Project.

Question: How does electrical grounding work for ships? Why is it so complicated?
Answer: It's not about electrical safety directly.  If you use a metal hull as ground, especially in salt water, electrolysis can cause corrosion.

Question: Poincaré recurrence theorem
Answer: You have a box of m & ms. You shake it and take them out one by one. Put them back in and repeat. If you keep doing this, eventually you will pull them out in the same order as the first time.

Question: Why does 2008 still feel like a couple of years ago?
Answer: Probably because with each year that goes by, you have a longer frame of reference to what time feels like? I don't think I phrased that well, but what I mean is that if you are 5, one year is 20% of your entire existence. If you are 50, one year is 2% of your life. So, to get the same feeling of "long ago", it takes more years, the older you get. Same concept as why summers seem to fly by compared to when you were a kid.

Question: What makes humans want to kiss one another?
Answer: > A person receives information about the person he or she is smooching by locking lips, Fisher said. A kiss transmits smells, tastes, sound and tactile signals that all affect how the individuals perceive each other and, ultimately, whether they will want to kiss again.

 > Women tend to be attracted to male partners with a different immune system makeup from their own, Fisher said. They subconsciously detect information about a partner's immune system through smell during kissing, she said.

 > Research led by Wendy Hill, professor of neuroscience at Lafayette College, looked at how kissing affects the hormones oxytocin, sometimes called the "love hormone," which is associated with social bonding, and cortisol, a measure of stress.

[Source](_URL_1_)

TL;DR: There's much more to kissing than what you might think. One of those is that you subconciously pick up things about the other person through smells you won't notice. There's also this [cracked](_URL_0_) article that explains it quite well, despite being a comedy site:

 > It turns out Nerve 0 is directly connected to the regions of the brain associated with sex and gives your nose a direct, private highway to your genitals. Well, that's interesting. What could that be for?

 > Scientists theorize that when you kiss someone, Nerve 0 picks up their pheromones and warns your body to start sending blood and good vibes down to your crotch as quickly as possible. It's important to note that Nerve 0 doesn't travel through your olfactory bulb at all, which means you can't actually smell any of the things your sex nerve is designed to pick up. And since our pheromones don't carry very well, getting close enough to kiss is basically the only way your Boning Nerve can do you any good.

Question: How penny bidding sites (like QuiBids or Beezid) make their money?
Answer: As far as I know, QuiBids charges $0.60 a bid. So if they see something for $10, that's 1000 bids, and they've made $610. The person buying it gets a pretty good deal and everyone else who bid is screwed.

Question: Difference between Special and General Relativity
Answer: I'll explain the difference between them, without going into what either form of Relativity actually *is*: Special Relativity only deals with objects (and reference frames) moving at constant speed. General Relativity extends Special Relativity, by figuring out how to deal with acceleration. (Spoiler alert: All acceleration is indistinguishable from gravity.)

Special Relativity doesn't actually require complicated maths either. High-school algebra (variables, square roots) is sufficient to cover the entire subject, making it less complicated than high-school physics (which if you're not using calculus, you're not doing correctly). On the other hand, General Relativity requires ass-butt maths. As in, I have a bachelor's degree in mathematics, and I don't know enough math do to general relativity. It's a topic called Differential Geometry, which *starts* by figuring how out to draw straight lines when space itself is curved. It then goes into trying to count the number of different incompatible ways that you can do calculus to the inside of a four-dimensional sphere (lack of spoiler alert: not yet proven to be finite; generally believed to be more than 1).

Question: Why do Western movies picture robots and cyborgs like evil beings, but Japan portraits them as the good guys?
Answer: This isn't correct at all. Western depictions of cyborgs/robot are often positive (Chappie, WallE, Short Circuit), and depictions in Japanese media are often negative (Bubblegum Crisis is the only one I can think of now because it's been a while since I watched anime). You are seeing a correlation where one does not exist.

Question: How are people colourblind?
Answer: Inside your eye are 3 different kinds of cells for detecting colors, one can see red, one can see green, and one can see blue. In colorblind individuals, one of those is either missing or not functioning properly, and so the number of combinations of colors you can distinguish is drastically lowered. You can still tell most colors apart because even if you may not see green properly, you'll detect the varying shades of red and blue in that color but you're missing some of the information.

Question: How does Southern and Northern US Border control work?
Answer: What's getting left out is where the border guards ask to see your passport, ask what you're bringing in to the country, and so on.

Question: Why do the front wheels of big trucks have such big convex hubcaps and lugnuts?
Answer: The commonality across all those big trucks having a doubled rear wheel. On a doubled wheel, you need to be able to bolt the two wheels together to be secure them. The rims budge out so they can touch each other.
 & nbsp;

The front wheel can't be doubled because it would interfere with steering. In order to only need one spare tire, the truck using the same wheel across the entire trunk, meaning that the budged rim is used for the front wheels.

edit: spelling

Question: What exactly is a G.E.D. and why do people keep making fun of people who take the test?
Answer: The GED is the "General Educational Development" test. It is the test that those who drop out of high school, or who fail out of high school take to show that they have learned the equivalent of a high school education. They are made fun of because they have already proven themselves failures by societal standards just having to take the test. It is not a kind thing, but society is seldom kind.

Question: Why is my original iPad completely useless after only a few years of ownership?
Answer: Because the software it's running is made for newer-gen models.  
  
 >  Is my new iPad going to do this in a couple years?  
  
Eventually, but not for much longer. The newer-gen models are magnitudes faster and more powerful than the first gen.

Question: how big is the internet?
Answer: _URL_0_

Check this out. Pretty much answers your questions.

Question: How does "artificial flavoring" work, and create something so distinct as grape or other fruits?
Answer: It's all chemistry. You start with a real grape and you sit down in the lab and try to figure out what it is in a grape that makes it 'grape like' in flavor. You could physically break down the grape into a slurry, and then use mechanical processes like centrifuges, or chemical processes like solvents and acids to separate the different chemicals in the grape and then examine the individual molecules for ones that create the grape flavor, grape color, grape scent (which is not always the same chemicals responsible for the flavor). 

When the chemicals responsible for the flavor and odor of the grape are isolated in this way, their structure can be studied, and using chemistry you can create a method of taking other chemicals and processing them in such a way that they form these same flavor compounds. 

Lastly once you have something viable, you test it for toxicity and eventually palletability. 

While the actual grape may contain hundreds of molecules responsible for it's subtle flavors, the artificial flavoring may contain only a few that are primary influences of grape flavor. 

The substances that create these flavors may appear in many other fruits and flavors as well but in differing ratios so study of grape flavor may discover compounds that are also responsible for berry flavor, or cherry flavor etc. Eventually a working set of "fruit flavors" are developed and over time the secret gets out and they become industry standard flavors. 

Many lemon and lime flavors for instance are just citric acid and sweetener.

Question: Is there any way the U.N. can hit back at Russia diplomatically?
Answer: Nope, Russia could just veto it since they are on the security council. It's a fundamentally broken system.

Question: How are wells built?
Answer: Wells are not technically built, they are drilled. 

In reference to a water well, a company will do some research to see if they can drill a well in the desired area. This all depends on location, ground type, and various other things. If a well is drillable they will bring out a truck, that is basically a small oil derrick, and begin drilling the well. Depending on you location and ground type the depth of the well will vary. 

Some places have underground "rivers" and can be relatively shallow wells, on the other had, some need to be deeper so that more water will seep into the vacant area that is created by the drilling. 

Once the well is drilled you can begin getting water from it using a bucket or a pump. 

This is all i know. 
I hope this answers your question. 
Resource: had a well drilled on old property. 
Please correct me if I'm wrong.

Question: What makes raindrops large sometimes but small other times? And is the size of raindrops indicative of how much longer the rain will fall?
Answer: Raindrops form when water vapour in the atmosphere clusters around microscopic solid particles (such as dust) in a process called nucleation.

Nucleation is reversible. As water molecules attach themselves to cluster, other molecules are leaving. There is a point called the *critical nuclear size*, at which point the cluster of water molecules is stable. This is the point at which a raindrop forms.

The critical nuclear size /critical radius is controlled by temperature. The mathematics tells us that as the temperature is lowered, the critical radius decreases.

Hopefully this answers your first question, and if I'm wrong I'd very much like to be called out on it! Cunningham's Law and all that ;) Ultimately, though, the answer lies in thermodynamics.

Question: How are space agencies sure they are not contaminating Mars/TheMoon, and why do they care?
Answer: Well, they use very rigorous clean room techniques to minimize the amount of biological contamination that is on our probes. Beyond that, the harshness of the environment is likely to whittle down at least some of what small amount they miss. But they are not sure they are not contaminating the objects, they probably miss *some* stuff. Not that either environment is especially conducive to life as we know it. The Moon especially, although some things may be able to eek out at least survival on Mars, if not prosperity.

They care because we don't want to substantially alter the environment we are studying before we study it, and just in case there could *be* anything alive there, it'd be a shame to accidentally destroy it with competition. Additionally, if we go to all the work to find life and then bring samples back to Earth, it'd be a real bummer if by the time they got here it as just good ole tardigrades or something of the sort.

Question: Why aren't we concerned with bacteria, viruses, and other microorganisms developing resistance to alcohol, chlorine, and other substances used to sterilize medical equipment (and hands)?
Answer: It is a good question. The answer is how it works on the organism. Anti-biotics work by interfering with some important function of a bacteria cell. Think of throwing a wrench into a machine and watching it gum up the works. Cells that have different machine arrangements can be more resistant to wrenches. They'll have casings around important stuff or gears that can allow a wrench to slip through the teeth without stopping. Maybe they have extra redundant machines.


Alcohol, chlorine and copper work by physically dismantling the machine. No amount of changing the machine will help when you shown up with a screw driver and start removing things.

Question: How do we 'die'?
Answer: * To kill by breaking someone's neck you need to sever the spinal cord, thus breaking the link between the brain and the rest of the body thus stopping the beating of your heart and lung function
* Blood carries the necessary oxygen to the cells in your body so a major blood loss can stop your cells from functioning, and enough can cause organs to stop working
* Severe head injury can cause a break in the link between your brain and your heart/lungs
* Dying of old age mainly is a standard infection or illness but your body is weak enough to not combat it

Question: How did the commonality of "seeing the light" originate when people are "crossing over" or passing away?
Answer: When your brain is deprived of oxygen (which is generally happening whenever the thing that's killing you is, you know, killing you), your brain shuts down different parts of itself in a given order, in an attempt to keep you alive as long as possible. 

Turns out, when the visual centers of the brain begin losing oxygen, you start getting tunnel vision, plus you lose the ability to see color, which means whatever light source you look at starts looking like the "light as the end of the tunnel", even if you happen to be staring at a streetlight or something.

Question: Why is it harder to be happy as we grow older?
Answer: There are a lot of possible explanations, someone might be able to link to studies but let's go for ELI5 and speculation.

New things are very exciting to your mind. The first taco you eat is AMAZING. The first time you play a video game it blows your mind. The first good book you read is SO POWERFUL. So you keep doing these things.

But after a while, you start running out of practical new things to do. You can try new restaurants, but eventually most of the menus have the same things you've eaten at others. You can play new video games, but after you've played a few dozen it's hard to find one with completely unique mechanics. After a few hundred books, you can't find many new plots. See the pattern?

A lot of people get bitter and decide this means new things are worse than they used to be. This isn't often true. But it is true that there's no way, in 2017, to recreate the feeling you might have had playing Super Metroid for the first time in the 90s. You already played it for the first time, it's hard to be surprised in the same way again. 

The best thing you can do is desperately keep trying to find new experiences. Or get a really nasty case of amnesia.

There are other bad things that happen to adults. We get in debt. We love, and lose. Sometimes people hurt us. Sometimes we hurt ourselves. Time isn't very nice to very many people. That tends to have a very bad impact on how "happy" you can be.

Question: Brainwaves. What are they? And can sounds of certain frequencies have an effect on them ? If so , why?
Answer: What do you mean when you say brain waves? If you are thinking of the readouts of machines like EEG's or similar devices what you're seeing on these machines is the electrical activity of certain areas of the brain that are picked up by the electrodes of the machine. 

Because most brain activity is a chemical exchange based on the electrostatic gradient, there are no "waves" or sound waves involved. What you are measuring with these machines are the minute changes in electrical activity in certain areas of the brain. 

Hope this helps a little.

Question: What is Markov Chain and why is it important?
Answer: A markov chain is a mathematical approach to disentangling several possible events that depend on outcomes before it. 

To stay topical, take a look at March madness brackets. You have a pretty low chance of getting your bracket right. But if we apply some really simple logic, we can increase that chance. 

If you fill out the bracket as a set of unorganized fill in the blank boxes, you won't do well. For instance, you could have a team that you eliminated in the sweet sixteen winning the final four. That doesn't make sense. Instead, let's create a chain of causes that predict the inputs into the next block of causes. 

If a team doesn't make the first round, they can't end up in the later rounds. Better right?

But if we have even more information, we can do even better. We could fill out our bracket *as* the tournament is happening and expect to do really well. A player who lead scoring got injured in the elite 8? We can use that information to reduce the team's chances in the final four. That's why a Markov chain is so.good at making predictions. It refined it's approach as it gets information. 

In real use, Markov chains get much more sophisticated. So sophisticated that becomes hard to keep track of all the variables. That's where higher level math like *linear algebra* comes in. 

In a *Hidden Markov Model*, you don't actually have to know how all the pieces fit together. You just need some good relationships:
- taller players do better
- players have to be healthy to play
- scoring early is important

Using *eignevectors* a mathematical approach can take a *system of related linear equations* and figure out which variables are *independent* of the rest. You do this by mathematically rearranging all the equations so that the few that dominate the rest fall out.

- taller players do better and the early scoring for this team is directly caused by their best player being tall. It's really only one variable at work here. 

As the Markov chain gets updated, the most important variables might shift.

- Taller players do better but this team's tall player is injured so the height variable is no longer part of what contributes to their early scoring.

Question: why is the holocaust so much more popular than other historical genocides?
Answer: Aside from having one of the highest death tolls (only the Congolese occupation has a higher average-estimate death toll), it receives attention partly because it was a new type of event. The word 'genocide' itself was only coined in 1944 to try and name what the Nazis had done.

The Holocaust was a planned, deliberate attempt to completely wipe a race of people from the Earth, domestically and internationally, executed in a large-scale industrial fashion using all the tools of a developed 20th-century nation, and had the fascists not been stopped by war, they would have seen it through to completion.

That's new. That hadn't happened before. That's why it's so studied. Sure, there had been lots of other mass killings and racist crimes of humanity -- but they weren't like the Holocaust. They usually fell into two categories: brutal massacres committed by invading armies (as seen in Mongol campaigns) and horrendously exploitative colonialism (as seen in the Congo Free State). 

The fact that Nazi Germany was a modern highly-developed nation also factors into it, I'm sure; it has a larger, more devastating impact to think of a modern educated developed country doing this, compared to say, the tyrant King Leopold and his absolute monarchy generations and generations ago. Likewise, Eurocentric views dominated as a matter of policy until very recently, so of course an event occurring in the heart of 20th century Europe has more shock value than some old business off on the (gasp) Dark Continent. Then there's the fact that we have huge amounts of recorded testimony, photographic evidence, video evidence, etc of the Holocaust. There are a lot of factors.

Question: Why does my stationary leg hurt when I ride a skateboard?
Answer: More to the point, it is almost like doing a one legged squat. In addition to holding all your weight up, you are lowering yourself several inches (with one leg) each time you kick/push with the other leg. 

I have a adult sized kick scooter where I experience the same thing. I could kick all day, but switch legs often because of the fatigue in the leg on the board.

Question: What is the significance of the MPAA joining the W3C?
Answer: The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) defines the specifications of the web.  It's largely an organization of technology companies and publishers trying to agree on standards to move the technology forward.

As streaming audio/video is being increasingly standardized (in things like HTML5), the MPAA naturally would like to have early input into how it's works - not unlike how Bloomberg cares about RSS.

The controversy is largely because MPAA has for years fought the industry rather than worked with it, so most people perceive it as a way for the MPAA to slow down tech or make a fuss about DRM (as that's how they've behaved before) rather than a step in the right direction to offer good solutions.

What does that mean to the average Joe?

Well, for years there wasn't a standardized way to do video on the web.  So Flash emerged, and Flash sucked.  For years Adobe had a monopoly on it, and it's the reason a lot of early video didn't play on your iPhone (because it was an Adobe-owned format that they couldn't come to agreement on).

HTML5 streaming video (which the W3 standardized the specification of) fixed that by pushing it as a standard that every vendor could implement on largely their own.

Lots of technology like that will emerge and evolve over the coming years.  How it affects the day-to-day for the non engineer in the industry is usually non-obvious (like the above example).

It simply means the MPAA will be present at a few tech meetings earlier than they have in the past.  If you're an optimist, that means that they've learned their lesson somewhat and will try to work with the industry instead of fighting it.  If you're a pessimist, it means they're going to make a short-sighted fusses that slow down the technology evolving.

Question: Why does electricity "want" to be grounded. If there was a bigger planet then Earth here would electricity jump to it instead ?
Answer: The more general rule is that a system will tend to minimize its potential energy. For example, a ball on the top of a hill "wants" to roll down to minimize its gravitational potential energy. Similarly, a circuit "wants" to minimize its electrical potential energy, or voltage (technically voltage is electric potential energy per charge aka electric potential). *Ground* is defined as voltage=0, so a circuit being grounded is like the ball reaching the bottom of the hill.

Question: What is that nasty gunky substance in your mouth after waking up? What is the cause of it and is that the reason we must brush our teeth in the morning?
Answer: If you're not brushing your teeth well enough before you go to bed, it may be plaque. But if you are, it might just be the inner lining of your mouth shedding and congealing nastily due to the nighttime dryness of your mouth.

Your mucus membranes shed even faster than the rest of your skin.

Question: Who REALLY foots the bill when a corporation goes bankrupt? The unpaid bills?
Answer: Whoever those bills are owed to, as the corporation does not have to pay them, so the debtors are shit outta luck on recouping that money.

Question: Why are textbooks so expensive?
Answer: Because only a small number are printed. If you print a million of something, the costs are divided across that large number and it can be cheaper. Print only 10,000 and the "fixed" costs are now divided across 1/100 the number of books.

Question: Why is it when a show or movie has subtitles, we can’t help but read them?
Answer: Two things

1. Remember how you spent the first several years of your life sitting in rooms reading stuff all day? and then you go to work and read stuff all day?, etc, etc. Your brain does \- so when it sees words, even without you telling it to, it goes "ooh, I know what to do here" and reads them. The brain just gets conditioned to read words that it becomes \(somewhat\) automatic. You can notice yourself doing this in other parts of your life too where you will automatically read stuff even if you weren't specifically trying to focus on it \(e.g. signs on the side of the road\)
2. Often in movies where there's dialogue being exchanged between two characters there's not that much else going on but the subtitles are changing, so they are actually the most "interesting" thing happening. Next time your watching a movie with subtitled but not trying to pay attention to the subtitles pay attention to when you pay attention to them \(as weird as that sounds\) and you'll probably notice that you're more likely to notice what the subtitles are doing when there isn't much else going on than you are during the action sequences.

Question: Why do we have to pay for internet? And why is there a limit?
Answer: You're not paying for "the internet". You're paying for a company to *connect* you to the internet. They build the infrastructure, they run a lot of very high-end, very specialised equipment, and they spent a *lot* of money on it. They're not going to let you use those for free.

Question: What and how can start a natural bushfire?
Answer: Lighting mainly. When a volcano is conveniently located that will suffice.  Plus if you have a decent damp pile of plant matter as it decays it can just get hot enough to burn.

Question: Why must we let a steak "rest" for best flavor, but that just makes it cold?
Answer: You just need to let it rest for 5-10 minutes before cutting into it. When you cut it right away after removing from heat, you will notice the plate will fill with liquid. That liquid is full of flavor that the steak loses.

Question: How do food companies determine the expiration date for a product?
Answer: It is calculated by measuring the rates of breakdown under less than ideal storage conditions. With ice cream, the limiting factor is likely to be the time it takes for ice crystals to grow, as well as the oxidation of some fats, degrading the taste and texture of the product. Because of this, it is likely to be called a 'Best Before' than an 'Expiry' date.

All of this is very complex, but is reduced to a certain number of days, from which is subtracted a safety margin, again carefully calculated. This is added to the date of production to give an expiry date. 

If it has been in your properly functioning freezer, and is a few days over, then chow down and enjoy.

Question: Why can you hear the voices in the apartment above you so easily, but not the voices in the apartment below you?
Answer: Because sound travels through the solid medium ( the floor slab). On the floor above, people are directly in contact with the surface; while on the floor below, you're only depending on the noise traveling through air and noise traveling in air is divided into reflected, absorbed and transferred, major percentage of which, is reflected.

Question: If you were confined in a small space with limited oxygen that you were trying to conserve, would it be more efficient to take continuous short breaths, or fewer breaths while holding your breath for longer periods of time?
Answer: You would want to lower your metabolic rate. Decrease heart rate. Calm down. Take long deep breaths. Make each breath last as long as possible....... I think.

Question: How comes different phone chargers take widely different time to charge the same phone,despite all being rated 5V 1A?
Answer: The usb standard originally allowed for only 500mA to be drawn per port. This isn't really enough for smartphones and especially power hungry tablets etc., so the manufacturers came up with a way for chargers to indicate they were willing to supply more power to the device. The device charging circuit can then draw more power than that safely - without that signaling the device could try to draw more than the charger/port can supply and possibly burn it out. 

Sadly there were different methods chosen - some short together the data leads, some use different resistors between them or between them and the ground pin etc. 

The wrong charger/cable with the wrong device won't step up to the higher current. 

I've just bought a small gadget from dealextreme which sits in the usb port and tells you how much current is being drawn from it. My cables vary from 0.3 to 0.95A to the same device - I'm in the process of labeling them and exploring the various combinations of charger, cable and device. 

Tl;Dr it's complicated.

Question: Why is mace (pepper spray) illegal in the UK?
Answer: There is no such concept as "defensive weapon" in any of the UK legal systems. Anything carried with the sole or primary intent of causing injury upon another is always considered an offensive weapon in the UK.

Note that the perceived intent of usage is important. If you were carrying a baseball bat outside a town park at 11 o'clock on a Sunday morning you'd be highly unlikely to be stopped by the police. If you had the same bat outside the same park at 2am the police would almost certainly consider it an offensive weapon.

Also note that defending yourself in a threatening situation is perfectly legal in the UK, as long as you use "proportional force" and that you haven't pre-armed yourself with a weapon.

Question: Can I take any antibacterial medicine for any bacterial infection?
Answer: To answer your questions: no, and yes. 

Bacterial infections treated by antibiotics vary widely. There are gram negative and positive, cocci and bacilli and several other ways to isolate or classify organisms.  A physician will order a culture/sensitivity test which takes several days to determine what cootie you're growing and what antibiotic it is most sensitive to.  Antibiotic stewardship follows treating the infection with the least broad spectrum medicine available to avoid creating more resistant strains. Also remember the common cold is a virus which are not affected by antibiotics.

Question: What is the force that causes you to think of someone moments before they call or text you?
Answer: Coincidence, confirmation bias and faulty memory.

There are no special forces. Rather, sometimes when you happen to think of someone they will contact you soon after. More frequently when you happen to think of someone, they won't contact you at all. Human memories are fairly flawed. Some of us might think we are masters of remembering stuff, but really, we aren't. Maybe rough lines, but details? Nope. And our memories are quite easy to influence as well, both by others and by ourselves.

All of this leads to the situation where you are more likely to remember those times you were thinking of someone and they just happened to call you. That makes you believe someone is always calling you as you think of them (because you don't remember the more frequent times when they don't) and you confirm your bias with your flawed recollection. 

Just grab a notepad and start marking down every time someone crosses your mind, even for a moment. Write down when these people call you. Do this for a week, and you'll quickly see that you think of people far more often than they call you, and them calling you is not related to you thinking about them.

Question: how rumble strips work
Answer: They provide step inputs to your suspension that can't be completely soaked up by the shock absorbers, causing the vehicle and its contents to vibrate at an audio frequency that most people are sensitive to.

Here is what the [US Federal Highway System](_URL_0_) has to say about them.

Question: Why does the U.S. military use exciting action commercials and other fanfare for recruiting rather than just telling us what the threat is?
Answer: Why does Bud Light have commercials of a guy playing ping-pong with Arnold Schwarzenegger instead of advertising its price and alcoholic content? Like any other advertiser, the Army spends millions trying to find the best way to sell themselves. The simplest answer is likely the exciting action commercials are the result of a group of very intelligent people studying data and crafting a pitch they think will attract the largest group of people. As with any commercial reaching millions, the results tend to be generic and inoffensive.

There are many reasons I think they'd avoid a "Hitler is killing all these people" commercial:

* It's a complex situation. We're talking about a fifteen second commercial designed to grab your attention, not a WWII newsreel.

* A commercial focusing on the enemy subconsciously reinforces the danger of serving in the armed forces. The single biggest downside to joining the military is that you could end up dead, and they obviously want to avoid anything that could reinforce that idea.

* Hot-headed assholes yelling "Let's go kill us some ISIS!" is NOT what the military wants. The keywords they use instead (bravery, commitment, service, etc.) are the more important indicators of military success that they're looking for.

* Our enemy isn't exactly the most... politically correct. The White House [refuses to even use the term "radical Islam"](_URL_0_) when referring to people like the Charlie Hebdo murders, for fear of alienating American Muslims and Muslim allies. The armed forces are likewise strongly recruiting Arabic-speakers and Muslim-Americans, and angry faces with turbans on your commercials won't help.

Question: What are the differences between the North and the South Pole?
Answer: The North Pole is in the middle of the water, usually covered by ice (less so nowadays because of climate change), and has polar bears, but no penguins.

The South Pole is on land (Antarctica) and has penguins, but no polar bears. 

Also, the North Pole is in the Northern Hemisphere  and the South Pole is in the Southern Hemisphere.

Question: What exactly makes some genes dominant and others recessive?
Answer: I remember that this was explained on Ask Science a year ago (Don't know why I know about it, but eh...); here's the link to the answer given, as it's really nice: _URL_0_

To paraphrase the analogy:

Genes code for different things.  Some genes code for different structural proteins.  You can think of these genes as coding for bricks.  Our "good" alleles (b) code for rectangular bricks, and bad alleles (B) code for spherical bricks.  If you have one gene for each, you're going to be making both spherical bricks  &  rectangular bricks.  But that's a problem - your building needs all rectangular bricks, and having some spheres and some rectangles doesn't build your building.  You have loss of function, so that negative trait is dominant.  (the bad allele B is the dominant one)

In contrast, if a gene codes for an enzyme, it's likely to be recessive.  These are like building trucks.  A good truck works, and a bad one doesn't work.  But, if you have some good trucks (good alleles, T) and some bad trucks (bad alleles, t), you might just have enough good trucks in total to transport the material you need from one place to another. Thus, we say that the bad trait is "recessive", because you're not going to experience full loss of function unless you have two bad alleles (only the tt case shows total loss of function, so the good allele T is dominant over the bad one t).  Now, you might have some negative effects, particularly if you need a lot of the enzyme, but it's not going to be a total loss for the most part, and you may well be able to function on a day-to-day basis without major issues.

Question: How a recession causes lower gas prices.
Answer: Gas prices are largely driven by gas demand.  The *demand* for gas however isn't usually driven by prices.  That is, most people don't travel less just because gas costs more, they have a set number of miles they *have to* travel to live their lives.

Well, if a bunch of people don't have jobs, and don't have any reason to shop, and can't afford to travel, suddenly they use less gas.

Gas has to become cheaper to sell all the gas they can make that isn't being used.

Question: Why trees produce different shapes/sizes of leaves.
Answer: A thing to remember about evolution (that I often see is either forgotten or never realized) is that so long as a trait works well enough, and doesn't kill an organism or weaken it to the point of applying direct evolutionary pressure, it will remain.

Leaves are a balance between energy expenditure (to grow) and energy production.  Trial and error from mutation and different plant branches of the evolutionary tree will lead to variety.

Question: The five lesser-known types of magnetism?
Answer: Basically, magnetic fields happen because electrons have small magnetic fields. There are various ways they can prefer to behave in a material, giving rise to their magnetic properties.

Diamagnetism is most noticeable when there are no unpaired electrons in a material. This negates the magnetic moment of the electrons (each one has a partner that negates it). It opposes any external magnetic fields by messing with the magnetic moment of the electrons' orbit. Every material will do this, but most of the time, other effects overwhelm it.

Paramagnetism is sort of the opposite, when there are unpaired electrons. Those unpaired ones can point any which way they please and thus, can line up with an external magnetic field, amplifying it. The magnetic moment of an electron is much greater than the magnetic moment of it's orbit, so this effect outweighs diamagnetism if there are unpaired electrons.

Ferromagnetism is like paramagnetism, except that it's so strong, the amplified field can sustain itself. The field generated by other electrons in the material is strong enough to get other electrons in the material to also line up, so it can keep the field by itself.

Antiferromagnetism is the opposite, the unpaired electrons want to oppose eachother, so they have no magnetic field. The reasons why this would happen instead of ferromagnetism have to do with complicated energy level nonsense in various materials.

Ferrimagnetism forms sheets, kind of. Antiferromagnetic materials have every electron trying to be opposite of it's neighbor, so it forms a checkerboard. Ferrimagnetic materials form rows as they try to be the same alignment in one direction but opposite alignment in the other direction. This usually results in a net magnetic field like a ferromagnet.

Superparamagnetism is only found in tiny pieces of ferro or ferrimagnetic materials. They're small enough that their temperature causes them to switch the alignment of their magnetic field too quickly to produce a stable magnetic field in any given direction. But when an external field is applied, they align. It's like paramagnetism, but because the material is a better magnet in the first place, it's stronger than normal paramagnetism.

Question: How does my cat know to look at my eyes/face when communicating something?
Answer: It's been a common thing for workers in parts of the world to have to wear face masks on the back of their head because tigers won't attack if they think a person is looking at them. So this goes past domestication and is a hunter instinct.

_URL_0_

And just as a tip for owning cats, look them int he eyes every now and then and deliberately blink. It's a sign of trust, as cats stare unblinkingly at people they don't trust.

Question: OJ and the recently discovered knife can we still prosecute him or no since double jeopardy?
Answer: Without considering the Double Jeopardy, the knife was supposedly found years ago and kept by as a souvenir by a cop. It was only recently brought forward as evidence. Pure speculation, but it could be real hard to use it as evidence in court since it was handled improperly. 

Edit: improperly

Question: Why do the body-cells age?
Answer: A few reasons. The most straightforward is that every time a cell copies it's DNA, it uses up a piece of the tail at the end of the DNA called the *telomere*. 

When a cell is out of telomere, fragments of the DNA itself start getting used and the cell goes into *telomere panic*. Each copy does damage to the DNA after that.

Question: What is involved in porting a PS2 game like Metal Gear Solid 2 to Xbox 360/PS3 for an HD Collection?
Answer: PS2 and X360/PS3 have different processor architectures. Which means that the same piece of code means different things to those machines. That's where emulators come in. An emulator is a software that reads a code that's written for a certain processor and "translates" it to work on another processor. Now to make an emulator work, you have to have a very good understanding of how both processors work, so you can make the translation process as smooth as possible. If an indie team consisting of programmers who know how those architecture work at the lowest level, they can make it work, within the limits of both processors' capabilities of course.

Question: Why does the water spray from the shower feel cold when you're standing next to the beam itself, even if the water is warm?
Answer: I believe you are feeling tiny borderline microscopic droplets of water which due to their size lose their heat to the environment extremely quickly

Question: why do empty folders contain 0 bytes of data? Don't folder names contain (even a few) bytes of data?
Answer: The contents of the folders are 0 bytes of data (no contents). It's like saying a real-life box contains 0 pounds. But the box itself isn't 0 pounds.

Question: Do caterpillars know they they are going to become butterflies? Or do they just get in a cocoon thinking, what the fuck am I doing?
Answer: You're giving them too much credit. When you get to insects that small, and insects in general, scientist aren't even sure they're capable of abstract thought like that, they're closer to biological machine, who just do what they do on instinct alone, their brains aren't really complicated enough to make it seem credible that they can think like we can.

Also, whoever commented bfore me, I'm pretty sure you've been shadow banned.

Question: Why do a majority of films that have action scenes usually have the action extremely loud and have all the talking quiet?
Answer: Most films are made with the movie theater in mind, or high-end home theaters. Those are usually multi-speaker setups, with a center speaker containing most of the dialog (not all), the other speakers doing sound effects, music and and ambiance, and a big ol' subwoofer (or two) for rumbling bass.

So when that movie is in the theater, there's plenty of dynamic range (i.e. loud parts are loud, quiet parts are quiet). It sounds great. When the Joker is telling Harvey Dent about chaos, it's quieter than when the hospital blows up. But when that hospital goes kablooey, it fills up the theater with big, loud, wonderful booming sounds.

But it all comes out crystal clear, because the speakers are designed to do such things. The louder stuff is *that much more powerful* because your ears have the quieter stuff to compare it to.

But then...

Take that same multi-channel audio track, and push it through a pair of built-in TV speakers that *at most* have 5-10 watts.

Here's what's going on:

1. Your six-plus speaker setup is now only two speakers. Your setup now has to figure where to shoehorn everything.
2. Those speakers are a lot less powerful.
3. Built-in TV speakers aren't exactly powerhouses of rumbling bass.

So you wind up with overall weaker sound. You turn up the volume because you can't understand what Batman is whispering about. Then suddenly something blows up and you go rushing for your TV remote before the neighbors come pounding on your door.

Unless you have a nice surround-sound setup at home, you've been there. I know I have.

Sometimes on DVDs and Blu-Rays, you can go to the "setup" menu and you see the production company has been gracious enough to provide you with a 2.0 option (this means two speakers, no subwoofers). Use that if you can.

Otherwise, check your TV menu. Some televisions have some sort of built-in audio compression to lessen the disparity between loud parts and quiet parts.

Question: What exactly causes Mouth ulcers?
Answer: Most are caused by unintentional damage such as biting. Recurring ones can be a sign of an underlying health issue. This may help
_URL_0_

Question: Why does food (meat, cheese, bread, vegetables) taste different when sliced thin vs thick?
Answer: I would guess it's because there's a greater surface area to volume ratio, so comparatively more of the food gets exposed to the air. The surface of the food will interact with oxygen in the air, affecting the flavor of whatever you are eating.

Question: what is the real difference between a Prime Minister, President  &  a Premier of a country?
Answer: Many parliamentary democracies are republics as well, although some still have monarchs as their head of state (i.e., not republics). That last thing -- *head of state* -- is a key term here. The other term that goes with it is the *head of government*.
  
The head of government heads the cabinet of ministers, and is often called the *prime* minister or simply the premier (the first/highest among the ministers, who heads the cabinet instead of a specific resort like foreign affairs, finance or the economy), but can also go by other titles, like chancellor. In some countries, like the US, this person is also the head of state in personal union. In others, like in most European countries, there is a distinct role as the head of state. Usually this is a president if it's a republic, or a monarch if not. If the role is distinct, it's usually mostly ceremonial, with some additional constitutional roles (e.g., some countries require the head of state to sign laws instead of the head of government, to have an additional safeguard). Queen Elisabeth II, for example, is the head of state of well over a dozen countries from all over the world, but not the head of government in any of them.

So, the important distinction here is between the head of state and the head of government, what they're called is just a matter of nomenclature and often rooted in tradition.

Question: Nolo contendere, or Plea of No Contest
Answer: Normally, there are two possible pleas in court. Guilty or not guilty; "I admit I did it, go ahead and punish me" or "I don't admit I did anything, prove me wrong".

In some cases, you are allowed to take a plea of no contest. This plea is saying "I don't admit I did it, but I'll let you go ahead and punish me anyway". While the immediate effect is the same as a guilty plea, depending on your jurisdiction there may be some secondary benefits to *nolo contendere*. For instance, under US federal rules, a guilty plea can be taken as an admission of guilt in some later court case, while a no contest plea cannot be.

Question: CFL bulb maximum wattage.
Answer: 1 watt isn't a big deal. 25 watts would create more heat than the fixture is designed for.

Question: Who pays for anti-smoking ads, and why do they want us to quit?
Answer: Fun fact: the Truth anti-smoking ads are actually funded (unwillingly) by the big tobacco comapnies. In the late 90's 47 states sued the tobacco industry for the medical financial burden their products put on the state's healthcare systems. Part of the settlement was that the tobacco companies had to fund the [American Legacy Foundation](_URL_0_), a not-for-profit organization dedicated to the eradication of smoking. The ALF is responsible for the Truth advertising campaign.

Question: Why is the camera on the Mars rover so low quality?
Answer: We can, just not yet. These cameras are the initial landing cameras to make sure it survived the landing. Later this week, the fancy dancey cameras will spring up and give us lovely, awesome (like, literally awe-inspiring) imagery.

Although it's pretty awesome already in my opinion :)

Question: Expiration dates for painkillers (details inside)
Answer: You are looking at date Filled vs date expired. Not date manufactured vs date expired. These drugs are created in large quantities but that doesnt mean they all get distributed at the same time. So the ones you got in 2013 and the ones you got in 2015 could have all been made in 2013.  Drugs do expire.

Question: How do pearls form?
Answer: Here's a hint- It's the same material as their shell.

The sand is an irritant to the soft gooey creature, it can't reach to dislodge a grain of sand that is stuck, so it covers it in a layer of the same stuff the shell is made of. They get the minerals from their diet. Layer after layer it gets incrementally larger, just like the shell.

Question: What happens when you charge a battery
Answer: Batteries make electricity when chemicals inside of the battery undergo a chemical reaction. Chemical A combines with chemical B to make chemical C + electricity. When chemical A and chemical B run out, the reaction has to stop. 

In chemistry, every reaction is reversible. If A + B make C + electricity, then C + electricity make A + B. When you charge a battery, you're giving chemical C electricity so that it can make A + B again. Once chemical A + B are back, the original reaction can happen again: you've recharged the battery by restoring the original chemicals so that the reaction can happen again.

Question: why are there only ever 2 or 3 NFL games available on tv each Sunday, instead of 5-10 like for college games?
Answer: > many games available on standard cable packages like college?

Because they make more money the way it is currently setup. It's pretty simple at that.  They have limited games on broadcast TV which they charge crazy rates for, which in turn is a limited amount of games people can watch which means everyone is watching them and the networks can charge crazy rates for ads.

The NFL then sells exclusive access to Sunday Ticket to DirecTV for a giant rate (DirecTV paid way too much) to make even more money.

The NFL is unarguably the best league in the world of sports at crafting and learning how to extract maximum value from their TV rights. Other leagues like the English Premier League, UEFA, NBA and such are all learning from the NFL's examples on how to craft TV deals, the NFL is just the best at it.

Question: How come old people sound "old". I'm not sure how else to explain it but they just sound different and harder to understand?
Answer: The cartilages in the vocal tract calcify and stiffen and the muscles get weaker. It makes their voice breathier and makes it more difficult to keep the pitch and loudness steady.

Question: Why do Humans (and most mammals) have individual teeth instead of a beak or solid bony structure?
Answer: Only reason I can think of is, if one of em breaks, we can still chew

Question: Why do people look away from the point of focus to think?
Answer: If you look away there's no stimuli trying to get your attention. You can look at a blank wall and not have anything stimulating you while you search your head for the answer.

Question: I've heard that no matter where you are in the universe, you're still equidistant from the universe's "edges" as it expands. How is this so? Or am I getting this wrong?
Answer: The "edges" of the universe are just as far as we can see, not physical edges, because the light at the edges is from the beginning of the universe and there can't be any light from before the universe.

It's like two ships on the ocean, which both see the horizon equidistant from themselves no matter where they are.

Question: Why are there ashtrays on planes?
Answer: The average lifespan of a commercial jet is 30 years.  Smoking was banned on planes in the US in 1988, 24 years ago.

Question: How come humans generally get into cold water slowly and uncomfortably, but animals jump in with no hesitation?
Answer: If you think animals are not afraid of water you have never tried to bath a horse or take one through a puddle.  lol.  

Humans know there is a choice, that water can be warm or cold.. or even too hot.  Animals know the temperature of the lakes/streams as being what they are.. they don't see any reason to be silly and enter it slowly if they need to cross, but sometimes you will see them entering water slowly when they are not in a hurry.  Maybe you need to be around nature more.

Question: What's the difference between tornadoes, hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons etc?
Answer: All are spinning masses of air.  Tornadoes are much smaller than the others being only a matter of yards across.  A cyclone is air spinning around a low pressure system and can be used regardless of the size. Cyclone is also used for a violent tropical storm, especially one originating in the southwestern Pacific Ocean or Indian Ocean. Hurricanes and typhoons are the same thing. If it's in the Atlantic it's called a hurricane and if it's in the Pacific around south East Asia china and Japan it's called a typhoon.    
Hurricane can also be used for any wind with a speed over 73mph.

Question: How does "The lion Whisperer" on youtube interact with lions and hyenas? Can't they just turn things around him any minute?
Answer: With any animal it comes down to training and experience. Same thing can happen with dog trainers and happens all the time. 

Lots of dog trainers for the police department have been bit by there trainees it is a hazard of the job. 

Roy of Siegfried  &  Roy career ended after being ”attacked” by one of there own lions.

Question: Why do I have the sudden urge to cough while using Q-Tips?
Answer: Ok, so basically, you have two cranial nerves that supply sensation to your throat, oral cavity, larynx, trachea, and external ear canal. When you insert a Q-tip, it stimulates these nerves, causing a discharge of signals to your brain. These nerves aren't completely separated, so your brain senses an irritation in your throat, which triggers the cough reflex. This same association of nerve impulses causes many people to feel they have a sore throat/earache when in fact their ears are free of infection. Hope this helps!

Question: Why are pregnant women restricted from roller coasters, hot tubs, flights, etc?
Answer: Something tells me that subjecting a fragile developing fetus to large gravitational forces isn't a great idea.


Nor is the general large increase in blood pressure.

Question: EILI5: The whole Viva Revolution with Che Guevara?
Answer: Che Guevara was one of the leaders of the Cuban Revolution of the 1950s with Fidel Castro. He now enjoys immense popularity as a t-shirt.

Question: Why do they bother to try and "hide" cell phone towers?
Answer: Because it simply looks more aesthetically pleasing.  Cell phone towers are an eyesore

Question: Full Faith and Credit in the US
Answer: US states can't deny the validity of legal documents in other states. So if I own some property in Texas, and I bring that up as evidence in an Oklahoma court case, the court can't decide it doesn't count because it's from the wrong state.

Question: Why do computers/programs freeze/crash?
Answer: It means theyre working. when you get to the theoretical side of computer science, it's actually impossible to tell when something is in an infinite loop, or just taking a very long time. Generally, the computer has just come across a large amount of data it must go through, or may perhaps be waiting on a callback from some other program it dispatched. You see this a lot if you've ever downloaded a small application from someone instead of a big budget program. sometimes when you feed a simple program lots of data (I have an image downloader some dude made in a day for instance) it will "not respond" for hours on end because it's working really hard sorting through all the data you just gave it, and not responding to the operating system's requests for activity because it can't. Generally speaking, unless you have a logic flaw, the program will finish sometime, but you have (literally a mathematically proven fact) no way of knowing when this will occur if you don't know how the program works or how much data was given to it

Question: How much of the music does a songwriter actually write?
Answer: It is sort of complicated. Generally, the person credited as the "writer" comes up with the main composition, or chord structure and melody for the song. 

For instance- Sting is listed as the sole composer for "Every Breath You Take", because he came up with the chord structure- but when you think about that song, it is Andy Summers' guitar riff that probably comes to mind. However- Sting pulls in a reported $2k per day  in royalties, while Summers gets squat.

The thought being that the other musicians (bass, drums, horns, etc) are merely playing along to the already "composed" structure of the song. Yes- they are still "writing" their parts- but the structure already existed.

Question: Dress sizes? What do they mean?
Answer: Men's sizes are based on measurements.  [Women's sizes are based on lies.](_URL_0_)

Question: Why do we use implants for breast enlargement instead of something biological like stomache fat?
Answer: Fat is a living tissue. Transplants of living tissue are more expensive and have higher risk of complications. Implants are biologically inert and relatively easy to implant.

Question: Why does the svartifoss waterfall cliff have squares
Answer: It looks like [basalt pillars](_URL_0_) erroded from the bottom.  Basalt, due to the crystalline structure or something like that, naturally forms these shapes.

Question: How to catch up/develop a well informed opinion on world news and politics?
Answer: Personally, I like Christian Science Monitor (even though I'm an atheist. They do good reporting) and The Economist. The BBC is also good for factual stories on world events.

Question: The political structure of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Answer: Bosnia and Herzegovina consists of two "entities", Republika Srpska and the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina.

The borders between these two are more or less defined by the territory the opposing forces of the Bosnian war held.

The two entities are mostly autonomous, but they are both represented internationally by the government of Bosnia and Herzegovina (this is distinct from the *Federation* of Bosnia and Herzegovina). There is one citizenship, and people are free to travel between the two entities.

There is also the Brčko District which is an area which is shared by the two entities.

The Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina is further split up into cantons which govern themselves to some degree.

Question: The ItWorks! business model.
Answer: [This article](_URL_0_) suggests that, as you might expect, it's very hard to get anywhere near the income advertised.

Question: Tomatoes and peppers are native to the Americas. Why are they identified with traditional Italian/Indian/Chinese/etc food?
Answer: A handful of centuries is an extremely long time. I wouldn't be surprised if the foods you mention almost completely supplanted traditional foods in Asia and Europe. Many New World crops offered vastly superior yields and nutritional value -- the introduction of potatoes to northern Europe caused an increase in available food which was followed by an increase in population which in turn necessitated the growing of more and more potatoes to feed the area's population. If I recall correctly the yam or possibly the sweet potato had the same effect in China. Regarding your original question, though; try Google or Wikipedia.

Question: Why are nike shoes $150 or more and how do they enhance performance in sports?
Answer: It's a fashion statement mostly.

Don't get me wrong - there's some technology and research there, but not nearly enough to really affect, well, anything that much.  You may jump a few millimeters higher through some new bouncy sole and lighter material.  And there is some stability enhancements that will slightly reduce the risk of a rolled ankle.  And some fabric may allow the foot to "breathe" a hair better.

But in the end, it's clever marketing.

Question: How all these big websites lately have been getting their data hacked.
Answer: Properly securing websites is one of those things where if you're doing your job right, no one notices.  If you're doing it wrong, no one notices until you get compromised.  This is why it often doesn't get enough attention.

In addition, because various sites are architected in many different ways in terms of software and topology, there's no one "right way" to secure things.  Whereas there exist best practices for Wordpress blogs for example, time must be spent to determine where more complex systems are vulnerable.  That doesn't excuse basic mistakes like not salting passwords or leaving database ports open, however.

Some of the recent attacks are not technological, but rather are social engineering. If users are giving away their credentials, there's no foolproof solution.

Question: why is depression so common in our species when the ultimate goal is to pass genes on? Isn't that counterproductive?
Answer: Humans, because of the society we have made for ourselves, don't necessarily need to respond to environmental pressures genetically when it comes to passing on our genes.

A person with clinical depression in our society can be treated and still have sex.  It's not preventing genes from being passed on, and that's the question you always have to answer when you're thinking about why x wasn't "fixed" by evolution.   If it doesn't prevent sex, you're not going to see any genetic fixes.

Question: The "Economic gap" between the "1%" and the "99%"
Answer: This is obviously a very complicated question, ~~Nobel Prize winning~~ economist Thomas Piketty set out to explore it in his book Capital.  What it comes down to is this:

If you make enough money (and only enough) to keep you alive, you will never get any richer.  Every day you will earn $5 and at the end of the day you will have $0 left, and so the cycle repeats until you die.

But if you earn $6, you can put away some of that money.  You can save $1 a day and put it in a bank account.  You can set the money to work, *to make you more money*.  For the super-rich, this is even more extreme.  The more money you make, the more you can invest, and the more you make off of those investments that you can then re-invest.  It's a positive feedback loop.

Question: What would happen if you were quiet for years?
Answer: The vocal folds (also known as your vocal cords) are mucous membranes. Unlike muscles, which can atrophy and deteriorate from lack of use, using or not using the vocal cords doesn't really make a huge difference in their well-being. You might have some voice breaking or stammering when you try to speak again after a long time, but it's not like they would waste away from lack of use. 

I believe that the biggest impact from lack of speaking would be more psychological. If you're in a situation where you can manage to not speak for any reason, you probably will not have a lot of human contact, which can affect your mental health in various different ways.

Question: SMPTE Timecode
Answer: Timecode is used in multiple ways throughout the production process. The most recognizable of which is the [slate or "clapper"](_URL_0_) The clapper is used to sync the video and audio track by creating a known point on both tracks (When the sound is made on the audio track, and when the clapper closes on the video) During editing, TONS of notes are made, mostly using timecode as a reference point. And finally, when the show or ad is broadcasted, the timecode ensures that there are no black frames (We call them "flash frames") in between different spots or shows. 

Timecode is also important for determining which broadcast standard is used. In the US, we use 29.97 frames per second (NTSC), so we use a special frame count called dropframe. Dropframe skips 2 frames per minute except every 10th minute. Other regions/formats are more straightforward and have a whole number like 24, 25, or 30 fps.

Question: Can imaginary numbers be represented visually?
Answer: One very helpful concept that helped me understand complex numbers is [this](_URL_0_).

It makes a lot more sense when you think about it in the way described above. Real numbers lie on a real number line, going forward for positive numbers and going backward for negative numbers. 

But imaginary numbers force you to deviate off the real number line by rotating about the origin and going off in that direction.

Question: How is it possible for someone to be transgender; I don't believe in gender roles or stereotypes so when someone is "transgender" i don't really know what that means... How can gender be separate from sex if we are trying so hard to eliminate gender roles, and promote equality?
Answer: [Recent studies] (_URL_0_) have shown that there may be differences in brain structure between men and women and that someone who is transgender has a brain structure more like that of their gender rather than sex. So even if we didn't have gender roles at all in our society (and trust me, we still do) there is still physical differences that are present.

Question: How do news outlets get a hold of all those secret tapes and documents that they reveal exclusively?
Answer: These usually come from whistleblowers or people who leak the info. Some news organizations (and I use this term loosely) pay for stuff, like TMZ or the National Enquirer. Most media companies don't pay (though there are exceptions). 

Usually sources give this stuff freely for a couple of reasons: 
- They want to expose corruption.
- They have an ax to grind against a person or organization. 
- They want some fame or notoriety.

Question: Serialization
Answer: Serialized means taking data from a complex structured format, and saving it in a simple format.  Some things like network connections and hard drives can only accept data in simple formats, which is why this is necessary.

Analogy: your bedroom is set up a certain way.  That's the complex structured format.  Now let's say you end up having to move to a new house.  Perhaps what you do is you carefully write down where everything is in your room.  Then you pack it up in boxes.  Then you ship the boxes to the new house.  Congratulations, you just serialized your room, by turning it from a complex structure format (the actual set up of your room), into a simple format (19 boxes and a list of instructions).

At the new house, you pull out the list of how everything is arranged, then unpack the boxes and place the contents in according to how the instructions say to.  That's deserialization.

Question: The difference between race versus ethnicity.
Answer: Simplistically and quite generally, race is what most people think of as one's physical form, and is based on outward appearance. Ethnicity is what most people think of as one's background, and is based on things like language, clothing, religious customs, etc. There are no hard lines between these designations, some overlap, and their definition is also very fluid, depending on the preconceptions and background of the observer themselves. 

Generally, when thinking of race, an observer will describe someone as being Black, or Asian, or White. This same observer might describe that persons ethnicity as being Jamaican, Vietnamese, or Polish. 

There are all sorts of problems with these kinds of artificial designations, the most important of which is that there really is no such thing as ["race](_URL_0_)"  *per sé*.

Question: Why do we get so much satisfaction out of popping things?
Answer: It's actually pretty simple. When we get surprised or something happens suddenly, our brains send blood and endorphins through our body. Popping something provides us with a "controlled" surprise where we know we are going to be surprised and we also know that we wont be harmed. So we get the benefits of being surprised without the risk.

Question: How do grown up (no longer in school) "bullies" work?
Answer: Well, its probably not a good idea to think of "bullies" like they are a separate population with their own tactics and strategy. Most people that we would consider bullies are just regular people like you or me, and I can guarantee that we've all acted like bullies a time or two ourselves.

Have you ever been rude to someone? Been forcefully angry with someone? Tried to force someone to do something? Teased or mocked someone? Made someone feel bad?

What benefits did you receive from doing it? How did you pick your victims? How did you work? Answer those questions, and you'll understand.

Question: Why is the measurement of time (seconds, minutes, hours) based around the number 60? Why not a more common base, like 10 or 100?
Answer: 60 is divisible by 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 12, 15, 20, and 30. Lots of options for splitting time into neat segments. You can divide 60 into halves, thirds, quarters, fifths, sixths, tenths, twelfths, fifteenths, twentieths, and thirtieths.

10 is only divisible by 2 and 5. So you can only divide it neatly into halves and fifths. It's just not as flexible.

Edit: I'm a political junkie, so I comment on a lot of threads featuring hot-button issues. But according to my inbox, this is the most incendiary comment I've ever made.

Question: Why do we, and all other animals, breath and use oxygen when nitrogen is so much more available in the atmosphere?
Answer: The nitrogen gas molecule (N2) is extremely stable and hard to crack apart.  Most living organisms can't do it - most of the biological nitrogen in existence came from specialized bacteria.

On the other hand, the oxygen gas molecule (O2) is highly reactive, meaning its energy can be harnessed for useful chemical reactions, like those that support life.

Question: What is it about potatoes that makes them go so well with so many different foods?
Answer: Potatoes are have a relatively neutral flavor.  This means they can take on the flavors of other foods without greatly disrupting the flavor profile. They're also cheap way to add bulk and calories to a meal. Recall that calories are only a bad thing in societies and ages of affluence.  In times and places where food is scarce, the goal is to get as many calories as you can into a meal because you don't know whether you're going to eat well next time. Even though we may not have such problems in some places today, it's still why the potato became an integral part of various cuisines in the first place.

Question: How are police sketch artists able to draw people relatively accurately based on descriptions?
Answer: It's something of an open question whether they are all that accurate.  Often they are accurate only in the gross details (hair colour, large nose, etc) and aren't otherwise recognisable. 

It's quite rare for a suspect to be identified purely on the basis of an accurate sketch, though.

Question: Why do most song lengths seem to fall between 2 and 4 minutes?
Answer: Much of the answer has to do with the length limitations of vinyl 7" 45 rpm singles, which for many years were the primary means of promoting a single song. You can only fit about 3 minutes of music onto a 45 rpm single. So historically, if you wanted to write a hit pop song, you had to keep it under that length.

More here:

[Why Are Songs On The Radio About The Same Length?](_URL_0_)

Question: Why is Kim Davis being held in contempt of court instead of just being fired for insubordination?
Answer: tl;dr: Elected officials cannot be fired - they must resign or they must be removed from office through impeachment proceedings.

Kim Davis is an elected official.  So she cannot be "fired." There are two ways that she can be removed from office - by impeachment and by resignation. In the same way, President Obama cannot be "fired."  He can be impeached by the Senate or he can resign from office.  

An interesting wrinkle is that the legislature in Kentucky (their version of Congress but at the state level) does not meet throughout the year (like Congress does).  So the legislature would need to call a special session to remove her from office through impeachment proceedings (or she can just resign from office).  

Kim Davis is being held in contempt because she has refused to comply with an order issued by a judge.  She can comply by resigning, being impeached, or deciding to do her job in compliance with the Constitution (as interpreted by the Supreme Court).

Question: What is that falling feeling you get in your stomach when you go down a hill in a car or rollercoaster
Answer: Did you ever jump into a cool swimming pool or river or something, and notice after five minutes or so that it's no longer cold? That's because your body 'gets used' to things after a bit. 

Your body is used to gravity (and in fact evolved to take advantage of gravity). So you don't even notice that your insides... and the content of your insides, are all under one gee of gravity, because it's always been that way. 

But get on that roller coaster (or even a really fast elevator) and you're exposed to sometimes-more, sometimes-less gees of gravity that make your innards heavier or lighter, as well as anything in them. 

So you have upward pressure in your belly region and throat and their content when you round the crest of a big hill at speed, and downward pressure when you hit that curve at the bottom. And the best your brain can translate that to is a falling feeling.

Question: Why is the sea made out of salt water?
Answer: Almost all natural water contains salts and other minerals including rivers and sweet water lakes just in different levels. Rivers flow constantly so the salt they pick up from the ground does not have time to build up to the point where it tastes salty. But oceans and lakes get all of this salt poured into them by the rivers where it builds up until even we can taste it.

Some more info: _URL_0_

Question: "Remastering" a movie?
Answer: Movies are shot using film.  
The original film is usually of very high quality. It's relies on physics and light to record high quality images.    
Say it's 1990 something and you want to release the movie on VHS tape.  
You would use a machine to transfer the film to the VHS tape. This creates a master tape, which you then copy and sells to people.  
But VHS is really lousy, it doesn't have anything near the resolution of the original film.  
But hey, not like anyone can do any better, so you put the film back into storage and sell the tapes.  
Fast forward a couple of decades, the movie has a huge fan base and they all have BluRay capable devices.  
So you dig the old film out of the archive, and you break out a new machine, this one makes BluRays.  
You make a new master BluRay disk, you have remastered the film.  
You copy and sell it.  
  
Of course, there isn't really one BluRay disk to rule them all, usually they make something in a format that is easy to make other BluRay disk from, same with the VHS tape. But it still involves creating a new higher quality copy from the old film.

Question: What do investment bankers actually do? Goldman Sachs, etc.
Answer: treedick is speaking about regular banks that give loans..not investment bank.

Let's take Goldman Sachs' Investment Banking division

Basically, they underwrite securities. Facebook is going public, they go to an investment bank to help them raise capital. Investment banks are financial intermediaries.

Question: Why is it okay to say racist things about white people and sexist things about men but not the other way around?
Answer: If you want the actual explanation for why some people say this, it is the following:

People *claim* that it isn't actually racism because racism = prejudice + power. So if you are a historically disadvantaged group (therefore less power), nothing you do can be racist. It can be bigoted, intolerant, or ignorant - but not *racist*. 

Does it make much sense? No, I don't think so. If you want equality, practice equality. Pretty simple. But that is how people try to justify it, anyway.

You also have a non-trivial amount of people who just hear "blacks can't be racist" (or whatever group you want to use) and go around using that to justify obviously racist/sexist actions without understanding the "justification" at all.

Question: What is bad about universities like the University of Phoenix and DeVry?
Answer: They admit anyone who has (or can borrow) the money to pay them, regardless of whether they are ready or able to do the coursework.   
They provide subpar education at excessive cost.  
Their graduates tend to find themselves not particularly employable, and in a lot of debt.

Question: How do wireless speakers work?
Answer: Just like radio. There is a transmitter and a reciever. In the case of Bluetooth, the transmitter is something like a smartphone. Then the speaker recieves the signal, and amplifies it.

Question: Why does touching the contacts on a 9-volt battery not shock you, but something like putting your finger in an electrical outlet will?
Answer: here ya' go:

_URL_1_

While potential (in this case volts) is 9v, the current is very low. The batteries ability to shock is negligible. As is 120v given low current. However most home circuits are breakered to 15 or 20 amps. More than enough to kill a person who sticks a fork or tongue in an outlet.

As for the difference in voltage vs current, that is described in ohms law.  So where a 120vac circuit can provide (let's say) 20 amps, a 240 volt circuit only need to provide 10 amps for the same power. (watts)

That's why may appliances use 240vac. The current necessary to carry is half.

A Van de Graph generator can produce 10's of thousands of volts. The current is negligible. Go ahead touch it. 
_URL_2_

Here is a good study on volts x amps

_URL_0_

Question: The Defense Industry
Answer: Here's an article about the top 9 defense contractors in the US and the projects they work on: _URL_0_

As far as I know, they work the same way all government contractors work, mostly, except that they and employees often have special security clearances. They place bids on contracts and the government accepts the best bids. I believe Cheney/Bush was criticized for unfairly favoring Cheney's former company in the bidding process, though.

Question: how do people deep fry ice cream? Wouldn't it melt?
Answer: First of all the ice cream for this is frozen at extremely cold temps, then it is quickly battered and fried, so while the ice cream softens up a little....it is still plenty cold.

Question: Chromosome 2 and Reproduction
Answer: other humans with trisomy mutations can sometimes still reproduce so I don't really see why this would be a problem and likely we just got lucky enough for the trisomy to be mirrored in possibly a sibling on sibling relationship due to the higher chance of both parents having the same mutation. From there the extra chromosome just stuck around because it had a pair. I don't really know, but it's plausible enough, from my understanding, that the initial macro-genetic impacts of the extra weren't significant enough to impact reproductive viability in a natural setting.

Question: On what grounds can a gaming company sue an individual for creating gameplay hacks? (Aimbots, etc?)
Answer: When you pay for software, you're not actually buying it- you're buying a *license* for the right to use the copy that you have.

This may seem like a minor difference, but legally this allows the owner of the software to determine *how* you're allowed to use it.

The details of licensing are found in the EULA, which most people don't read. In practice it rarely crops up, but it gives the software company leverage in their back pocket if they ever need it. Included in the license agreements may be the right to revoke access without notification, the right to collect information about your usage of the software,  & c.

_URL_0_

Question: Why does my nose get runny when I eat/drink something hot.
Answer: Spicy foods irritate the mucus membranes in your head and lungs. Your body reacts to this by making you create mucus, to coat and protect you from whatever may be causing the irritation. You also tear to protect your eyes, which drains into your nose, exacerbating your snot nose. 

You can also sweat because your body thinks it's overheating, and is trying to cool itself down. 


I always put some hot sauce on my food and over time you gain a sort of resistance. Can be a fun way to win bets.

Question: Someone dies before they get a chance to retire. What happens to all of their social security benefits?
Answer: US Social Security works less like a piggy bank, and more like a Ponzi Scheme (some critics would argue that it's *literally* a Ponzi scheme, although I think that goes a bit too far).

Unlike most pension plans, citizens do not have individual "Social security accounts" which they pay into while they're working, and later withdraw from when they're retired. Instead, every currently working citizen pays into one big pool, which is used to support citizens who are currently retired. 

When a citizen retires, they're not supported by the money paid in by their *own* generation, but by the generations which are currently working. If a veteran police officer gets shot two days before his retirement, nothing special happens to "his social security benefits", because there was no specific package of benefits with his name on them yet. There is, however, a system of benefits for widows and orphans.

[Ida May Fuller](_URL_0_) of Vermont, ~~Social Security Number 000-00-0001~~, began paying payroll taxes into the Social Security system in 1937. She retired in November 1939 (having paid money into the system for three years), and collected the very first monthly social security check in January 1940. She continued receiving benefits for 35 years, until her death at the age of 100.

Question: How much knowledge can the human brain store?
Answer: This is a commonly asked question here. Please see [these previous posts.](_URL_0_) If they don't entirely answer your question, you might create a new post with
a more specific question.

Try our handy Search function sometime. :-)
For best results in most cases, use 2 or 3 general, common words
that refer to the key concepts in your topic.

Question: Is Magneto (from X-Men) good or bad?
Answer: Think of Magneto (and Charles Xavier) as ideologies.  

X-Men has always been a metaphor for people who are different, marginalized, etc.

Thinking back to the Civil Rights struggles of the 1960's (when X-Men was created), you had people advocating non-violent protest (Martin Luther King Jr.) and you had people who were, well, not necessarily violent, but definitely more militant (Malcolm X).

Both had more or less the same goals, but their methods and messages were different.

Charles Xavier is MLK, Magneto is Malcolm X.

They did have to write things in to make Magneto be more towards the "bad" sides when talking about mutant superiority (which is subjective), which isn't related at all to civil rights, but the Professor and Magneto started at the same point and diverged.

Question: Why does Bayern Munchen/Munich have the 2 names, and which one is "correct"?
Answer: Its official German name is "Fußball-Club Bayern, München e.V.", normally abbreviated to "FC Bayern München" or just "Bayern München".

"München" is the name of the city -- its German name. To English-speaking people, the city is better known as "Munich", so in English-speaking countries the club is known as "Bayern Munich". That's not its official name, but the English version of the abbreviation of its official name.

Of course, "Bayern" is German for "Bavaria", so you might expect the English name to be "Bavaria Munich". But English-speakers have no problem pronouncing "Bayern", so it's left as it is. "München", on the other hand, is really difficult for English-speakers: the sound written "ch" does technically exist in most English dialects but never in the middle of a word like this; while the sound written "ü" doesn't exist in English at all. As a result, English-speakers simply can't pronounce "München" correctly.

If you're in any doubt as to the "correct" form, just look at [their logo](_URL_0_pics/logos/fcb.png) on their [official website](_URL_0_). However, to avoid embarrassing yourself, unless you speak German well, it's probably best to just stick with saying "Bayern Munich".

Question: Where do TV ratings come from?
Answer: The main ratings firm is the Nielsen Company. Hence the term Nielsen ratings.

This works basically the same way a political poll works. There are statistical methods for looking at the way a small number of people answer a question and figuring out how the population as a whole would answer it. Just like they don't have to ask *everyone* who they're going to vote for to figure out that President Obama polls at X percent while Mitt Romney polls at Y percent, they don't have to count every single person watching a program to say this many people watched it.

They pick a sample the same way pollsters do. In this case people sign up to be "Nielsen families" and they're given a diary. They're supposed to track when someone is watching TV and what they're watching, and then report that information back to the Nielsen Company, who figures out how many of their sample are watching a show and then work out how many people that compares to across the whole country using a lot of statistics and math.

One problem with this method is that it relies on the families to tell the truth, and sometimes they don't. Nielsen also uses electronic monitors that track what channel the TV is tuned to, and even has experimented with cameras that would confirm whether the TV's just on in an empty room or whether there are actually people in there watching it.

Question: What are the main differences between Republicans and Democrats in USA?
Answer: full disclosure, I'm a registered democrat and this is a very loaded question, but VERY broadly:

Democrats tend to believe that the solution to problems lies in enabling (forcing) a community to come together to support the poorest/weakest individuals. They try to put policies in place that directly provide money or services to these people at the expense of the more wealthy members of society. The disadvantage is that it puts a disproportionate burden on the wealthy, since they have to pay not only to support their families but also contribute to poorer families. Any system or policy put in place at a government level can be gamed, and it also carries a certain level of inefficiency and bureaucracy. Additionally, individuals don't get to choose which parts of their taxes to pay, so if you don't care about the arts and don't want to support them, a portion of your taxes will still go to fund them. The advantage is that these policies provide greater opportunity for people to rise from poorer classes. People born into poor homes start off with disadvantages - just a few examples would be that they can't afford high-quality food, have to attend schools with less funding, and are more likely to grow up with domestic violence. As a result, they are less likely to go to a good college, and thus less likely to get a good job. The deck is stacked against them, and democrats aim to fight that a little bit, arguing that even if their policies are imperfect, they are worth it.

Republicans believe that these policies should be limited in order to keep them as efficient as possible. They believe that what you earn should belong to you, and that good people will help the poor anyways, but that forcing you to fund certain programs that you may not agree with isn't fair. The argument is that the "American dream" means coming from nothing and making something of yourself, and if you do that then you deserve to reap all the benefits of your determination and hard work. They also argue that rich people and wealthy companies have more money to hire workers, which therefore creates jobs. The disadvantage of this is that once someone is rich, their kids tend to do better, and poor people are stuck by the wayside; a few people climb the ladder but it becomes increasingly difficult to do that, so it is advantageous to the people already in power and harmful to others. The advantage is that wasteful spending is reduced and people can choose what to fund rather than having the government decide for them.

The Tea Party has become a big part of the Republican party, but it's actually quite unique and I think it should be separated out. The Tea Party is vehemently opposed to a lot of government policies. Think Republicans on steroids. However, the Tea Party relies on sensationalizing false facts and figures to make their case. For example, many Tea Party politicians state that the US was founded as a  Christian nation, which is explicitly NOT true according to writings from the founding fathers. They often say that programs cost more than they actually do or blame the current administration for policies that were actually created under the previous administration. They do not seem to fact check most of their claims, but they say them convincingly and people assume they know what they're talking about. They refuse to compromise on legislation (which completely obstructs the process of creating laws), and thus make congress unable to get things done, and then use the fact that congress isn't doing anything as evidence when they complain that government is broken.

Historically, Republicans and Democrats have been able to work out their differences to pass programs that are in the public interest while keeping them small enough to minimize their impact on your paycheck. A great example is Medicare, which was passed with bipartisan support in 1965 and helps us pay for care for the people over 65, which is the time when care is most expensive and also the time when people are not working and thus won't have insurance through their employer.

The parties have been growing apart for a while, but the advent of the Tea Party in the last several years has really highlighted their differences, and forced Democrats to be the party of "Big Government" and Republicans to be the party of "Rich Privilege". The people we elect to congress are increasingly more extreme on both sides, so it's harder to reconcile differences and work together to govern.

Question: The controversy surrounding the 2000 election (George W. Bush vs Al Gore)
Answer: It was an extremely close race, the deciding state being Florida.  537 more Floridians voted for Bush than for Gore, but across the board, in the entire country, Gore got more of the popular vote. 
So the supreme court made the decision that since Bush won Florida, the deciding state, by a margin of 537 votes, that Bush had won the presidency.

Somebody Correct me if I'm wrong please.

Question: What's the difference between a flash drive and external hard drive?
Answer: An external hard disk is called as such because it utilizes a Hard Disk Drive (HDD). One of these drives has a metal platter with different magnetic sections, called sectors, that are read by a small magnetic sensor called a head on the end of an actuator arm. Many people are now moving over to flash storage, however, which is what a flash drive utilizes and thus is named for. Flash storage does not contain moving parts but rather is similar to a large grid of capacitors and transistors that are used to keep data. It is faster to access than an HDD because you do not need to wait for the disk to spin to the correct location. It can decay, however, unlike an HDD. The more an area of flash is written the more it wears out and eventually it will fail.

Question: Why are colleges and universities so different from each other (Yale vs a local community college) but all of the information taught in school is the same for their respected fields ?
Answer: I studied physics at a reasonably high-ranked school, and I can tell you definitively that 90% of what I learned that actually stuck was from working with other students, not from lectures.  The caliber of fellow students is hugely important in my opinion, and you simply get better students at better schools.  I also contest your statement that the information taught is the same.  With better professors and better students, more can be covered in the same amount of time, so subjects can be taught more completely and more thoroughly.

Question: How do various worms dig into people, and how do we not feel it?
Answer: they normally enter through food when they are very very small. 

alternately there are some parasites who can enter through cuts that already exist in the skin.

Question: why are transgender issues suddenly all over the place?
Answer: Causes are fashion for many people. And transgender issues are currently the most fashionable. I say this as someone who fully believes that trans people deserve equality and freedom from persecution, but also as someone who recognises that people clearly bandwagon.

Question: How can clams grow shells?
Answer: In a very similar manner to how humans grow bones and teeth. They capture the elements they need to form them from their environment, and react them together in such a way as to deposit a solid mineral in the places they need it.

Question: Do News sites still see that I watched their video even if I said screw this when the Ad came up?
Answer: If the video loads even for an instant, yes - that counts as a view. It does not technically count as a complete view if you left before the video ends, however, a view in the internet world is counted as an impression.

They will also know if you left before the actual video by tallying up the number of times the ad and the actual video has been viewed (or similar metric). If the number of ad impressions exceeds the number of views, they will know that their ads suck and they need to put it elsewhere 'cause people are not seeing the actual content.

Question: Black athletes with hyphenated names
Answer: No I meant why is it so prevalent in black athletes. I know about hyphenated names with divorced parents. 

I want to know why it seems to only occur in black athletes and not in other races IN SPORTS.

Question: I had a fruit fly wander into my microwave and I decided to nuke him for 3 minutes, for science of course, and in the end the little bugger flew out. How is this possible?
Answer: 1. The insect is too small to act as an efficient receiver of microwave energy.
2. There area areas within the machine that get far less energy, and (by moving from hot to not-hot areas) the fly can seek them out.

Question: Why do I get a feeling someone's watching me even when I can't see them?
Answer: I've always heard that the brain records and processes every single thing your eyes see. EVERYTHING. Although it sees all, it has to choose what information it presents to your aware mind at the moment in time. Although your brain saw everything when you walked into a new room, there is only certain information that you need to be aware of, and only a certain amount of information you can actually use.

My best guess is you can sense someone is watching you because at some point in the last few minutes your brain actually saw someone...but you just werent aware of it at the time. But because the brain is wired for survival it tries to send messages to you that you should be careful, hence the feeling of being watched.

Thats the way i understand it.

Question: what is "old man" strength?
Answer: Nobody's mentioned this, so I figured I'd give my $0.02. Old man strength is typically from those who have been performing some form of physical labor for a long time, and have such developed incredible grip strength. This is the part that /u/WOT_IF_UR_LEGS is talking about where it feels as if they can crush your hands. Additionally, what they may lack in raw power, they make up for from years of lifting heavy objects and have developed a proficiency in it so that they may look a lot weaker (old man) than they really are (strength).

Question: Why Do People Have Fetishes?
Answer: I have a bag of frozen peas. I always buy Birdseye, I just prefer that brand, but some people like other brands and that's OK too. If you're having peas with dinner you'll cook them in a pot or in the microwave so you have warm peas in the plate. That's just how it's done, right. 

A few years ago I was making dinner on a really hot day, and there was a bowl of frozen peas sat there waiting to be cooked. The bowl was nice and cool, frost on the outside and all. It felt good on my clammy hands. I wondered  what they'd taste like frozen, but that'd be weird, cold hard peas, wouldn't it?

Tentatively, I picked a few up and tossed them into my mouth, rolled them around with my tongue and crunched down on a couple. That sensation of going from cool and refreshing to defrosting and releasing that sweet juicy pea flavour were just wonderful. 

I often enjoy a mug of frozen peas, much to the scorn and ridicule of my nearest and dearest. 

Anyway, I tried a thing and I liked it, even though it might be considered unconventional.

Question: I've been without an internet connection since June 12th. What's going on in the world?
Answer: Most major stuff has already been covered but:

*The largest Ebola outbreak ever is going on right now

Question: Why is a mouse more accurate than a joystick on a controller
Answer: Because with a computer mouse you move it exactly X distance on the table so the cursor moves Y distance. With a joystick, you essentially 'toggle' the cursors movement in any given direction, for a certain length of time, until the cursor reaches what you need. It's also less accurate because you're dealing with a fixed joystick instead of a mouse that you can move all the way across your desk if you wanted to.

This is my interpretation of it, anyway

Question: When was the last time in human history it would be more common to see someone walking barefoot than with shoes or sandals?
Answer: It was common up until the 1950s in the south for children to go without shoes. It is still somewhat common in regions with lots of creeks.

Question: Why do some drinks seem to pass right through you whereas plain water is retained?
Answer: The sugar and electrolytes in Gatorade and other sports drinks actually increase how much water you absorb into your blood stream. This can be perceived as too much fluid and your body will try to get rid of it if you aren't actually dehydrated. Normal water, on the other hand, lacks the sugar and electrolytes that promote water absorption so it stays around in your gut longer.

Question: How does a disease make a comeback like Ebola or the Bubonic plague have recently?
Answer: Ebola has no cure, or even a real treatment. It never really went away. It's just that humans aren't commonly exposed to it (it probably normally lives in bats), and when they are it tends to kill quickly enough that it burns itself out.  So you see a series of fairly quick and nasty outbreaks in the areas in which infected bat populations come in contact with humans, in west and central Africa. 

Plague is different, in that it's curable with antibiotics. It lives in various rodents, and occasionally breaks out because it too has never really gone away. If it happens in a richer country, it's usually dealt with pretty easily. Isolated cases pop up in the US and Canada now and again, incidentally.

Question: How do they clean up the lead at gun ranges?
Answer: Nowadays that lead is worth good money as scrap.  There are guys that come out with some attachment that fits on a tractor that kind of sifts the lead out of the dirt.  The gun range makes big money for letting them come take the lead.

Question: why are some people are more prone to insect bites?
Answer: I don't know about other bugs but mosquitoes have a preference for type O blood. CO2 also attracts them, and pregnant women exhale more CO2. Also alcohol (as little as 12 ounces of beer) seems to increase their attraction to you; possibly because it raises your body temperature.

Question: Why are timeshares considered a scam?
Answer: You basically "Own" a part of a property and you only get to use it a few weeks a year, yet you pay property taxes, upkeep costs and "Association Dues" year round.  Most people don't want to spend all their vacations at the same place every year, but if you have a time-share, you're wasting money if you don't use it.

Question: What would happen if there was absolutely no US involvement (i.e. provision of weapons, logistics, drones, etc) in the Middle East?
Answer: the IS would take over.  creating a bigger "nation" that's hostile towards US relations.   puts israel and our trade partners in the middle east at risk.    a middle of the road country is open to trade as long as such a trade agreement does't cause problems with its neighbor.  if ISIS is their neighbor, they're less open to agreeing to trade with the enemy of ISIS.

Question: What does the "strength" of an earthquake acutally mean?
Answer: As you may know, an earthquake occurs when two slabs of rock move relative to one another over a surface called a "fault". Moment magnitude is simply the product of the area of the fault ruptured, the relative movement across the fault, and the stiffness of the rock (called the shear modulus). It is closely related to the energy released in the earthquake, but the relation is not trivial.

The moment magnitude does not take into account any other factors, so ignores the depth, duration, size of area affected, and so on. The moment magnitude is an important quantity in academia because it is directly related to the fault rupture itself. However, it is not of huge benefit for working out impacts because other parameters like proximity to population centres, building quality, depth and surface geology (the waves that cause the damage are surface waves that only represent a tiny fraction of the total earthquake energy, and these waves can be amplified or suppressed depending on the geology at the surface) are a lot more important than the moment magnitude. 

You may be interested in the USGS's [PAGER program](_URL_0_) which tries to take these factors into account to estimate the economic and humanitarian impact of earthquakes when they happen.

Question: How does the air-pressure sensor in rotating car tires report the pressure to the stationary chassis?
Answer: There are direct and indirect systems. Direct systems have some sort of sensor in the tires that measure the air pressure, and use wireless communications to feed that data to the car's computer. 


Indirect systems don't measure the pressure directly, but sensors on the rest of the car (like the suspension system) measure different variables on how the car is riding, and then a computer on the car tries to interpolate tire pressure. Generally the car has to be driven for a little while (on what are assumed to be properly inflated tires) and it creates a sort of baseline profile of how the car rides. Over time, if the sensors measure significant changes from that baseline, then that's a clue that something might be up with the tires. 

Direct systems are much more accurate, but require sensors (with a power source (battery)) to be located in each tire, which can be a significant maintenance issue. 

The indirect systems can't give you an actual measurement of pressure in each tire, but can usually detect when a tire gets low enough to be a serious issue.

Question: the Hypergraph
Answer: A hypergraph is a collection of nodes and edges as a standard graph is, but this time, the edges don't have to be between just two nodes. Edges in a hypergraph can contain an arbitrary number of nodes. That is all that is going on.

While hypergraphs can be useful in theory, in practice I'm not aware of anyone actually using them. You can turn a hypergraph into a graph pretty easily by just replacing each hyperedge with a clique, and now you've got something that is easy to perform typical algorithms on.

Question: Explain to me how stocks work, what makes the price go up/down?
Answer: Also, you can think about companies like cows, and buying stock like buying part of a cow (and buying part not in the sense of the tail of the hooves, but owning a certain portion of the money the cow generates). The cow can make you money in two ways:

1) Whenever the cow is milked the owners of the cow can give you some of the money they get by selling the milk (this money is called dividends). alternatively, the rancher can choose to use some, or even all, of that money to improve the value of the cow, maybe by feeding the cow better food or having a veterinarian give it a check up (retained earnings). You may be okay with not getting even of the milk money if you trust the rancher to use that money wisely to increase the value of the cow (Apple's cow is worth a TON of money despite the fact that, until recently, they never paid out any of their milk money to investors).

2) At some point the cow can be sold (the company can be bought out) and you will be payed based on what percentage of the cow you own. Even if the whole cow is not sold, you can sell your portion of the cow to someone else if you want. 

The value of the cow, and therefore your portion of the cow is decided by a couple things. First, the basic attributes of the cow are important. Is it a healthy cow? Does it produce a lot of milk? Does it produce good milk that people like to drink? Is it likely to grow in the future? How does it compare to other cows that are similar to it? These kind of things are the cow's (or company's) fundamentals.
In a perfect world, the price of the cow would perfectly reflect everything that you, or anyone else knows about the cow.

Second, what people think about your cow, and cows in general affects the price of the cow. Is there a mad cow scare brewing? Is veganism in fashion? Or on the positive end maybe you're expecting a hot summer where a lot more people than usual will want to barbeque hamburgers, or maybe you know of a new beef-based diet that you think will become all the rage and expect the value of your cow to increase. These kinds of things are the "behavioral" aspects of the price of your cow (or stock) and are important too, but much harder to see  or measure.

Question: Where do bugs go in the winter time?
Answer: Depends on the species.

1. They hibernate - like lady bugs in the leaf litter, or female queen bumblebees in the soil.

2. They migrate south - like monarch butterflies

3. The adults die, but leave their eggs/larvae in a safe space to "hibernate" over winter and their offspring hatch/emerge in the spring - like crickets

4. A small number carry on as usual even in the very cold - like mites and spiders

Question: Mars Time
Answer: Mars spins slightly slower than the earth.  A day on Mars is called a *Sol* and lasts 1^d 0^h 37^m 22.663^s , [NASA adjusts their timekeeping accordingly](_URL_0_).

Question: or[5] Electronic Tablets/E-books.
Answer: Sounds like you should look at the [Nexus 7.](_URL_1_) Good size for portability, amazing price and three different storage capacities (8GB, 16GB, 32GB), lots of free apps, and it starts at $199. There are plans for an even cheaper $100 8GB version in the future, but that is unconfirmed for now.

If that's too small, maybe look at the [Nexus 10.](_URL_0_)

Question: How does an electron microscope work and can it be used on living tissue?
Answer: An electron microscope works by passing electrons across the object that it's scanning. Basically, the object is coated with a heavy metal, and the electrons that bounce off get recorded, and it gets put into a computerized image that gets manually colored for effect.

Electron microscopes require the object to be placed in a vaccuum, so no, it cannot be used on living objects.

Source: Bio student

Question: What's so bad about Detroit?
Answer: Poverty

Jobs left the city at an ever accelerating pace over the past few years and this has led to lower and lower incomes and, consequently, higher crime and lower property values. 

As it gets worse fewer companies would think of moving in and bringing back jobs and the situation worsens and worsens. Their economy was heavily reliant on manufacturing and that is the way of the past for this country as factories move to the employer friendly south.

Question: Why can't multi-billion dollar companies have less profit and pay their employees more without wrecking the economy.
Answer: they could.   but what would be the benefit to the owners of the company by having less profit?

what would be the benefit to shareholders who are looking for the company to maximize profits?

Question: Why do animals eyes light up in certain colours when shone at with a torch/light?
Answer: Many especialy night active animals have a layer of reflective tissue behind the light sensing cells at the back of the eye. That allows them to caputer more light in their light sensing cells. Additionaly that makes the eyes act as a retroreflector (meaning they will reflect light back paralell to the incomming light) like in the bottom image here: _URL_0_ . The color comes from the tissue that surrounds the lightsensing cells absorbing some of the light.

Question: What causes a stye or an Internal stye?
Answer: It is usually caused by a staph infection, and can be treated by putting a warm compress on it around four times a day and just leaving it alone. Let it resolve on its own and just take painkillers, or if it is very painful seek medical care.

Question: How come we can land probes on comets and send satellites around the galaxy, but we can't put a high resolution color camera on these devices?
Answer: We could now. But this probe was launched 10 years ago, and was designed and built mostly during the 90s.

Question: Why some credit card transactions require a billing address and some only require a zipcode?
Answer: CVV codes are not mandatory, it is up to the person/company as to whether or not they want to require it or not.  In some cases their Merchant provider will offer cheaper rates on transaction when CVV is used, as it leads to less fraud however some retailers choose not to do that.  Many merchants still refuse to include a security code field in their online checkout forms, because they believe that doing so may confuse some of their customers or otherwise put them off and lead to lost sales.  It's also a violation of PCI compliance to store CVV numbers, which helps reduce fraud but since the CVV can't be stored it means that the buyer has to have their card with them at time of purchase (again that is good in terms of anti-fraud), but some companies do believe that can hurt sales.

Question: How do gradients work in tatoos
Answer: Hi there i tattoo and its exactly how they said. The needles dont need to penetrate too deep and the more times you go over it the darker it becomes you want to go from lightest to dark. You cant take dark back. We water down the black in different amounts or whatever colors and just like water color painting we blend in the shading/colors. White is not the proper way to do a greyscale tattoo. White is meant for accenting and highlighting. Multiple needles at different sizes are also key to this process with the right amount of voltage and speed, and plenty of lubrication for the skin to not be damaged.

Question: How did the russian revolution start?
Answer: The Russian Revolution is actually two revolutions, the February revolution and the October revolution (Stalin, btw, was involved in neither).

During World War 1, in February 1917, a bunch of workers in Russia started a strike, and basically everybody ended up joining it, including the army and eventually some key figures of the Czar's government. They forced the Czar to step down and give power to the Provisional Government, that was supposed to organize free elections, but ended up being removed from power in November by a group of Bolsheviks, lead by Lenin and Trotsky.

The basic reasons were that the Russians were losing WW1, and that there was a lot of poverty and hunger. Also, the Czar was very unpopular because he taxed heavily and was very dictatorial. It turned out that the Provisional Government really didn't do that much better, so that gave Lenin the chance he took to get some support for this second revolution.

Question: How do the water intake on this nuclear plant work? And how this guy managed to go from the inlet to the outlet without a scratch?
Answer: Nuclear engineer here. He was sucked from he ocean to the intake bay. At the far end of the intake bay is where the pumps push water through the plant. 

The intake bay water level is at a slightly lower elevation than the ocean, which created the pressure that sucked him through. He didn't pass through any pumps or the plant, just an intake pump to the bay.

Question: How do the mammals of the ocean hydrate themselves.
Answer: They have awesome kidneys. 

The kidneys are able to filter the water to hydrate the body and remove the salt.

Human kidneys are not so awesome.

Question: "PTSD is a cultural product" what does that mean?
Answer: If I understand this correctly, what its saying is that PTSD only exists as a recognised disorder because of the ability we have to study it.

It never used to be recognised. In wars, for example, people would get it and be labelled as cowards, because it wasn't understood what the sufferers were going through.

I think its similar to our modern day view of depression. Maybe back in the day, depressed people were seen as someone who just needs to harden up, a bit of a downer all the time. Now, though, we realise its a proper disorder that the patient can't control, as opposed to a voluntary sadness.

In the same way, now that we have studying PTSD and its effects, we can recognise it as a disorder, not just someone being anxious and touchy and aggressive.

Question: Why can most things in the body be transplanted, except the eyes?
Answer: Whole eyes are really tricky to transplant for a few reasons:

1. The retina dies in only 2-4 hours without a blood supply. The donor and recipient would have to be right by each other.

2. The retina is part of the brain, so if a donor is brain dead, the eye would be dead too. You have to harvest the eye right after the donor's heart stops.

3. You have to connect the optic nerve, which has 1.3 million individual nerves that need to link up.

4. You need to suppress the immune system so it doesn't recognize the new eye as a foreign and attack it. (Although this isn't as bad as for other organs since the eye is generally protected from the immune system.)

Actually this stuff isn't that far off. Researchers have already transplanted eyes in mice who survived for 200 days. But they aren't sure how much vision those mice had restored. Still, even 30% vision restored gives people independence and is better than complete blindness.

Question: Weird vibrating eye "trick"
Answer: it's called nystagmus. It can appear as a problem for some people, in which it is uncontrolled, but some people are able to do it voluntarily.

Other than the obvious vision problems for people who have involuntary nystagmus and can't 'switch it off', I'm not aware of it being a cause of any sort of damage.

Question: Why are some words considered more offensive/rude than others, despite meaning a very similar or even the exact same thing? I'm referring to swear words mainly.
Answer: Similar question has been asked more than once today. It's weird.

All languages have curse or swear words; words used to describe acts, ideas, or concepts that are considered taboo by the culture that uses said language. These can vary widely from culture to culture, of course, but the common taboos in western civilization are (as I'm sure you're aware) sex-related.

In English, at least, the idea of "poor" or "bad" language also comes in part from how the language as we know it today developed during the middle ages. In the simplest terms, the common people spoke a different dialect than the Norman French nobility, and the so-called "vulgar" (literally "common" in Latin) vernacular was seen as dirty, impure, and distasteful to the prim and proper Norman overlords.

Question: Why are highway and street signs usually white text on green (at least in the US)?
Answer: You're correct that white and black would provide the greatest contrast, but the primary issue isn't contrast. Highway signs are "retroreflective," meaning that at night, when you shine your headlights on them, the light not only illuminates the sign, but the sign also directly reflects a good amount of that light back at you. Black backgrounds would not be efficient retroreflectors (since black absorbs most light, reducing reflectivity), plus they would be difficult to see at night since the sky is black. Green was chosen since the eye is highly sensitive to green, it is clearly visible day and night, and it is a good retroreflector. Green is a common choice in many countries, including Canada, Japan, China, and Australia. Many European countries opt for blue backgrounds with white text or white backgrounds with black text.

Question: Japanese vs American automobiles
Answer: American cars used to be the hallmark of reliability. I think a variety of reasons contributed to the decline of quality in American cars. From an econ/financial perspective it just became too expensive to build quality cars. Labor costs for automotive companies kept going up because unions kept wanting more benefits and higher pay for less work. The companies can't redistribute the extra costs to the consumers because that will just drive them to their competition even faster so they did the only thing they could and cut down on quality.

Question: Why do vehicles that carry a lot of people not require seatbelts?
Answer: I asked a school-bus driver once about this, and he replied that kids would use the seat belts as weapons. I, for one, could definitely see my teenage self smacking my seatmate with a seatbelt.

Question: I always hear about spacetime, but what proof do we have that it exists and that all theories based on it are accurate?
Answer: There have been [a number of experiments](_URL_0_) that have shown general relativity to be a more accurate theory of gravity than the classic Newtonian model. 

For example, our GPS satellites have to correct for relativistic effects. The fact that your GPS works is proof positive that general relativity is a thing.

Question: Canadians: What's the political situation with Quebec? What's with the whole "revolution" thing?
Answer: Think of a teenager screaming at parents and siblings saying nobody understands me, I'm moving out. Then stays home sulking when they find out they would have to do their own laundry and cooking, and pay for their  own groceries. Then says they are staying, but only if they get their own apartment above the garage. Then finally coming out of their room on pizza night, load up their plate, and sits watching tv with the volume up, ignoring everyone else in the family, refusing to share the remote. 

So, yeah, a passive aggressive teenager.

Question: Only 5 White Rhinos Left (alive) Worldwide--What does that mean for the Eco-System?
Answer: Specifically, little at this time. But it is a reduction in the biodiversity that keeps the environment healthy.

Best way to explain it is to simplify things - let's just hope Disney doesn't sue me. Follow the circle of life - the antelope eat the grass, the lions eat the antelope, the dead lions decay and feed the grass. If all of the lions disappear, the antelope will over populate, eat all the grass, and everyone dies. If the grass dies, the antelope die, and the lions starve. If the antelope migrate, the lions starve, and the grass rules everything.

As a single entity, the white rhino's disappearance is not going to destroy the ecosystem - they are part of a greater collection of animals that fill their step in the circle. But their biodiversity is gone, meaning if there was an event that would wipe out the other rhinos but wouldn't have effected the white rhino, the ecosystem does not have the white rhino to fall back on anymore.

Question: Are product restocking fees BS or is there some legitimacy to them?
Answer: How do you define BS? It costs the business money to have employees around to put the item back into inventory, makes their logistics less efficient, etc. 

The entire area of return policies is a strange one. Businesses are under no obligation to accept returns for any reason. Anything they do is strictly for marketing or customer retention reasons. How much did the restocking fee affect your willingness to do business with them down the road? Did it affect your initial purchase decision?

Question: After an earthquake, how do we tell if a building is structurally sound enough to re-enter and use again?
Answer: If there's internal damage, there will always be some amount of external damage. The amount of external damage can be very small compared to the internal damage, misleadingly so, but there will always be some.

And yeah there are a lot of things you look for. Small cracks (a couple millimeters) are expected in certain materials, and don't necessarily mean its unsafe.

Other things are more obvious. If you see piles of debris, a lot of broken windows, huge cracks or the building is actually tilting, its best you stay away.

For large buildings, they just don't let anyone go in until professionals can inspect the structure to see if its safe or not. With smaller structures and homes, you can have the people occupying it look for any obvious signs of problems, and make judgement calls until an inspector can get around to it (they'll be busy with more vital things like hospitals in the immediate aftermath, so it takes time to getto residential areas.)

Ultimately, its usually pretty obvious if there are any major structural problems.

Question: neo-liberalism
Answer: Economic liberalism was an economic philosophy that placed a premium on individual autonomy and treating the economy as a collection of individuals making choices. 

For awhile following the great depression, economists tended to look at economies as large systems. This difference in perspective caused these folks to tend to argue more for state intervention in the economy. 

Starting in the 50's and 60's, groups of economists began going back to ideas that sounded a lot more like classical liberalism, arguing for deregulation, privatization, and free trade. These groups were collectively called "neoliberals"

Question: The psychology behind game grinding
Answer: There's two - there's MMO Grinding, and there's classic JRPG Grinding.  

With MMO Grinding, it's a [Skinner Box](_URL_0_).  Push button, receive reward.  Early in the game you're rewarded for doing damn near anything.  Talk to someone - get a level.  Cast a spell, get a level.  As you go up in levels, it stretches out more and more, leading you to do the same repetitive tasks for the reward.  It's why people do high level dungeons over and over and over again - they're grinding for the "reward" of a slightly different colored items with slightly higher numbers on them than the item they already have.

With classic JRPG grinding, it's a mechanic to stretch out the gameplay.  Selling a game with 20 hours of gameplay when your competitors claim to have 60 is going to get your game ignored.  So rather than assume the player will gain two levels traveling to the next area's boss, you tweak it so that you need to add at least ten levels, maybe more.  Item prices are much higher as are spell or item prices.  This forces the player to fight random encounters for hours on end to gain the experience and money needed to beat the next boss and move on to the rest of the game.

The first is.... when it's done well, you don't notice it.  When it's done poorly, it's all the game is.  The second is an outdated mechanic and should be delegated to the dustbin of gaming history as something that, in retrospect, is a terrible design decision.

Question: Why do you have to get your oil changed after 3 months if you haven't driven 3,000 miles?
Answer: And you're told this by people who sell oil. Maybe that should give you a clue.

Certainly in modern cars, that should be unnecessary.

Edit: Spelling

Question: Computer Graphics Cards
Answer: Numbering is just a nice way of differentiating the new cards from the old cards. Occasionally it switches. For instances, years ago, NVidia was making cards with thousand series (4XXX up to 9XXX). Then for some reason, they decided not to do 10XXX and started with hundred series (2XX up to currently 6XX).

As for specs, there really isn't an ELI5 answer to most of it. In General, for all Cards, a Higher RAM number indicates a better card (Some higher end GFX cards have 2 GB of RAM [Though its usually listed as 2048 MB of RAM]). As for the Other Specs, AMD and NVidia have diverged in how they make their cards, so there aren't a whole lot comparisons you can make anymore just looking at each cards specs.

You could go to a PC Repair shop and ask them to install it for you, though it might run you like $50 or more to have that done.

Question: Why is it the iphone (and other smartphones) requires a separate file type for a ringtone instead of being able to use mp3's already on it?
Answer: Because that's how they are set up, ringtones are a separate purchase, so they don't want to lose money buy allowing you to natively create a ringtone from song files on your device.  
  
There are of course super simple ways to manually make them into ringtones. It's just that when you pay for the song, you are paying for a copy to be downloaded and played, not to be used as a ringtone.  
  
I wouldn't mind so much if it was a 49¢ purchase, but the average one is $1.29, the same price as the whole song, while only a handful are 99¢.  

TLDR: greed

Question: the bill of rights
Answer: Most of them are pretty self-explanatory.

1. There can be no laws against what you say, or what religion you follow, or who you associate with.

2. We need a military force, so you're allowed to own guns.

3. You cannot be forced to house troops.

4. Your home can't be searched without an OK from a judge.

5. You can't be tried twice for the same offense.  You can't be forced to testify against yourself.

6. You have to have a fair public trial with witnesses you can cross-examine.

7. If you want a jury trial, you are entitled to have it.

8. The punishment must fit the crime.

9. This is not an all-encompassing list.  You may have other rights too.

10. If it's not specifically a federal issue, then it's automatically a state issue.  [There's more, but I can't really describe it LY5.]

Question: Why to high performance engines like drag cars and hot rods have engines that sound like they are out of sync at an idle?
Answer: They use really big cams that do not make power until a certain high RPM, its called the power band. 
At low RPMs the cam isn't working efficiently. Most drag car cam's power band might be from 3000RPMs to 7000Rpms. Drag cars, right before the green light will raise their RPMS to the power band which is where the cam is designed to run

Question: Does the distance that sound travels follow a linear pattern based on the volume/decibel?
Answer: No, it's the inverse square of the distance. [link](_URL_0_)

Question: The difference between DVD-R and DVD+R, CD-R and CD+R?
Answer: DVD-R and DVD+R are two DVD formats. This means that the way the data is stored on the discs themselves is slightly different. From a user's perspective they both function the same and have almost the same capacity (-R has 7MB more).

DVD-R came first and is the "old" format. DVD+R is newer and has some advantages. For example its format is more resilient to errors (can handle more scratches).

DVD-R can be read by any DVD player, new or old. However DVD+R can only be read by more recent DVD players.

CDs come in only one format.

Question: April showers
Answer: There's something called the "Jet Stream" which controls much of the weather we see on the ground.  In early spring it starts shifting north, which leads to storms being pulled behind it landing in various places like the UK or northern North America.  I'm not sure if it's actually more than other months in most of the US though.

Basically weather moves in a pattern and april is a point where storms are being sent from the ocean over land more than many other times, so we get more rain.

Question: How can peristaltic movements transport liquids?
Answer: Peristalsis works like this:
_URL_0_

Stick a drinking straw in a cup full of water, place your thumb over the end of the straw, and lift it out of the water so that the straw is full of water but no longer in cup.  Pinch the straw flat with the thumb and forefinger of your other hand up near where your thumb is covering the end and pull down, still squeezing and covering the end with your other thumb.  

That's basically how peristalsis works.  The muscles pinch the "tube" in a small area (be it your esophagus, intestines, etc) and force its contents along with a wave motion.  It pinches, pushes a little ways, and releases.  The next muscle pinches it again, pushes it a little ways, and releases.  This process repeats until the contents get where they're going.

Question: How does the ISS maintain it's altitude without crashing into the planet?
Answer: So you know when your throw a ball it follows a curved path down back to the ground?

Well the ISS is moving so fast and is so high up that it's curved path equals the curvature of the earth, so it approaches the earth just as fast the earth curves away from it, so the distance between the earth and the station remain, fairly, constant.

Question: Why do I have to pee when I'm nervous?
Answer: You may have heard of the 'fight or flight response.' When you are stressed (nervous/frightened etc.) your body releases hormones to help your body deal with the situation - the best known one is adrenaline. This hormone tells your body to do a whole bunch of things, and urinate is among them. It is suggested that this might be to lighten your body to make it easier for you to run.

Question: what's the difference between an "escort" and prostitute?
Answer: Looks price and class. That's it. When you pay for an escort you're  paying for "the girlfriend experience" you talk to them eat with them you know go on a "real" date but at the end you know your getting lucky. With a whore your getting some drug addicted pimp abused woman who only wants to get you off as fast as she can so she can fuck some other guy in 10 seconds with out cleaning up. That's the difference.

Question: What is stopping us from just replacing our natural adult teeth with synthetic ones?
Answer: Mostly Price. Where I live it costs around £1000-£1500 for 1 dental implant.

Question: Since whales are mammals, and need water to live like we do, how do they get it if they live in salt water, which is bad to drink?
Answer: They get it from the food that they eat.  Whales, and dolphins, can't starve to death, they die of dehydration first. 

They do get a little bit from sea water but their kidneys can't remove much salt so if they accidentally drink too much sea water when they eat that could kill them.

Question: How exactly a silent approval of criminal acts by law enforcement authorities goes through in modern, western countries?
Answer: You've kind of hit the nail on the head.  It tends to vary from place to place, but I think a lot of law enforcement organisations don't see a great deal of point going after small-time drug dealers.  As you say, there's always going to be demand for drugs and if any police do turn up it's pretty easy just to disappear.

In Japan, 'grey area' industries like prostitution and drug dealing are technically illegal, but run by the Yakuza, who's existence is tolerated by the state.  They don't want to make that stuff legal, but it's going to happen, so better that it happens in the open.

Question: Why do we move our body (by either dancing or simply bouncing our head) to music? What exactly in our body is causing this?
Answer: Actions speak louder than words.  Movement can encode aggression or play or healing or prayer or mating or celebration or grief.  

Movement attracts attention because people need to know how to interpret your intentions.  Someone dancing through the front door of a bank will draw a different attention than someone dancing the same way through the door of a club, so context is also in play.

Any gesture or movement, done in unison by a group, becomes a rhythmic dance that encodes some agreed on meaning; waving baseball caps up and down in the dugout helps the batter get a hit, or at least feel the support of his teammates.

Now for the music side of your question.  Music induces emotions in the audience.  Good musical technique has been defined as the audience experiencing the emotions that the musician has prepared for them.  

The derivation of the word 'emotion' contains this:  from Latin emovere "move out, remove, agitate,".  This are all actions.

So the simple answer is that music can make a group of people feel emotional, and if the emotions are strong enough, the group will move their bodies (dancing, fists in the air and shouting).  Getting our emotions outside of ourselves lets us celebrate and control ourselves.

Here's where the confusion comes in:  Calm.  This could be indifference to the music.  This could be unfamiliarity with a specific kind of music.  This could also be the intent of the music; creating a calm state of mind.  Calm is not an emotion in the classical sense; it is stillness embodied and lacks agitation.  However, in the modern sense of states of mind, calm is just another energy level that we can measure and it happens to be associated with stillness rather than actions.

The function that ties all this together is a shared experience.  The musician creates it and the audience participates in it.  And that, IMHO, is why we dance.

Question: How are outside noises able to be incorporated into your dream?
Answer: Brains are complex things. While dreaming you are thought to be basically consolidating the memories you want to keep and not keep, and you create scenes in your mind involving things that were important to you recently (consciously or unconsciously). So while your brain is doing all of that, your ears, eyes, nose, and mouth are still wired in. Incoming stimuli from any one of those sensory organs can be implemented into the seemingly chaotic mess of neural activity that we call dreaming.

Question: How does restarting something (i.e. a computer or a PlayStation or such) work?
Answer: PC hardware comes typically with only a single program baked in, called the "bootloader". This program is designed to boot up whatever Operating System, or OS, has been installed on it.

When you turn on the PC or PS4, it starts the bootloader, which is a relatively small program that simply loads the PS4 OS or Windows or MacOS or Android, etc.

When you restart the PC or PS4 (without shutting it down or turning it off), the OS program exits with an additional instruction to the bootloader program to reload the OS. And that's exactly what the bootloader does: it resets the starting environment and loads the OS, as though it had been turned on for the first time.

*edit, phrasing*

Question: Why are we so reluctant to kill animals nowadays when, in the past, our society used hunt all the time and feel no remorse?
Answer: People live sheltered lives, some going through all of it without killing any animals or getting into a fight. There's also social conditioning, people being told since they're toddlers that it's a heinous act to hurt people and animals. People like to elevate themselves to a moral highground by bashing the 'barbaric' practices of their ancestors, something they can afford to do because they've never experienced starvation. Killing animals is necessary to our survival, the only difference is that nowadays the majority of people don't have to get their hands dirty to enjoy the meat and hides.

Question: how does depression change the way you think?
Answer: So I'm not quite sure why you have this labeled as chemistry, so I'm going to do my best to mention chemistry, but this is more of a biology question.

You have these things called **neurotransmitters**. Some of them dictate how you feel. Serotonin is a mood stabilizer, it's very important in making sure you can have "normal" emotions. Some people have problems with their serotonin levels, take me. I make maybe half or less of the normal serotonin that a healthy person does. This leads to difficulty controlling my emotions, especially those of anger and depression.

Depression has many forms besides the one above, but in most cases it can become very difficult to think happy thoughts. You may have self deprecating thoughts or focus solely on the negatives.

Final point: depression is different for everyone, and this answer is influenced by **my** experience.

Hope this answered your question.

Question: How does a boat motor work, and how does a small propeller move such a large object?
Answer: A boat motor works similar to a car motor except they're usually direct drive or have a simple single speed forward gearing, as well as a reverse gear. You have a shaft attached directly to the engine rather than a complex gearbox. The shaft runs through what's called a stuffing box, which is a grease filled tube that keeps water out. 

Very large boats (cruise ships, container ships) use azimuth thrusters. Large rotating pods which contain an electric motor that is powered by a diesel generator in the ship's engine room. So no need for a stuffing 

As for the propeller, they work the same way an airplane propeller does, or a fan, or a swimmer doing the front crawl. They scoop water and push it back. Since every action has an equal and opposite reaction, this causes the boat to move forward. Thrust. 

You can change how much water they scoop by adjusting the angle of the blades, the pitch. The sharper the angle, the more water they can scoop at a lower rotational speed. Allowing them to work more efficiently. Since water is more viscous (thicker) than air, you don't need as much surface area or rotational speed as you would with say a plane. Nor will you need to go nearly as fast. So you can make the prop smaller. The downside with adding more pitch is it requires more torque, rotational power. Which is why boats are often powered by high torque engines like diesel, steam, and electric as opposed to gas. With a gas engine, the prop has to turn faster, so it needs a shallower pitch to get the same amount of speed. But it's doing less work per rotation. So when buying a prop, you really have to keep in mind the ones that are designed to work with your engine. 

There's another issue that crops up too if you spin a prop too fast: cavitation. The spinning prop creates a low pressure zone which causes water to boil at below 100c. Bubbles of steam appear and pop, which cause shock waves that can actually damage the prop.

Question: Why, when through binoculars or a telescope 'the wrong way' do things look smaller, but you can't make the same thing happen with a magnifying glass?
Answer: There is always more than one lens/curved mirror inside the telescope, so the result is different if you reverse the order light goes through them. When there's only one symmetric lens looking either way through it produces same result.

Question: What does "political economy" mean and how can it meaningfully be contrasted with the "moral economy"
Answer: "Political economics" is an old phrase which means the same thing as just plain "economics" means today (or perhaps "macroeconomics", if you want to get less-like 5)

Basically, what people used to call "economics" is now called "home economics", or "home ec".   And what they used to call "political economics" is now just "economics".

"Moral economics" is just some self-righteous people trying to tell everyone else what to do.  It is not particularly comparable to economics as a whole, any more than "I like blue and so should you" is comparable to "color exists and is a property of light as perceived by the brain through the eyes".

Unless you meant "moral philosophy", which is from the same time period as the term "political economics" is.

Question: What is being 'calculated' by supercomputers?
Answer: I work at a research university, and system administration of our supercomputers falls under my team's responsibilities. What ours supercomputer do is simulation. They simulate things like chemicals interactions, nuclear reactions, electronic systems, and many other things. In many areas of research, it is a lot cheaper to develop models that can be simulated in supercomputers to test ideas, instead of experimenting with real world systems.

Our research groups use their models on our supercomputers to research solar energy, advanced films, water treatment, artificial intelligence, medical imaging, and a lot more.

All of this requires a lot of processing power because 1, these are complex models involving the interactions between multiple dimensions of variables; 2, because being able to perform calculations faster means either getting results sooner, or being able to simulate systems in more detail, with better results.

Question: How does Italy regard it's history in terms of their involvement in WW2 different from their "ally" Germany?
Answer: Because at one point during the war (1943) the Italian King had Mussolini arrested and at this point Italy was not part of the Axis (Germany, Italy and Japan) anymore. Germany, from an ally became an invading force of Italy. Also, the anti-Jewish laws were repealed by the new Badoglio government while the war was still going on. 


Basically, by the end of the war, Italy was not viewed as one of the 'bad guys' anymore. So while for Germany there were the [Nuremberg trials](_URL_0_), where all the atrocities committed by Germany came into surface, no such trial took place against Italy. 

So it's a combination of two things: a. Italy probably didn't commit atrocities comparable to Germany; b. any war crimes Italy did commit did not undergo the same level of inquiry of those commited by Germany.

Question: The Operation Teapot video is one of the craziest things I've seen. What exactly am I seeing?
Answer: >  but what are the "eruptions" coming from it? Was it detonated in the air?

It was detonated on the top of a tall tower. The "eruptions" are the guy-wires that stabilized the tower being boiled into gas and plasma from the light of the explosion before the blast wave proper reaches them.

Question: How does bioluminescence work?
Answer: Chemical reactions but instead of releasing (like most of them) heat as energy, or even electricity they release photons aka light

Question: I read on reddit to get rid of a persons hicups ask them when are they going to pay you back for money they owe you when they really dont owe you. I tried it and it worked why?
Answer: I once had someone cure my hiccups by asking me "Hey, what color is eggplant? Do you see anything eggplant colored in this room?" I looked around intently and couldn't find anything, and I told him no.  He then asked me if they were gone, and sure enough, totally cured.  I think something about the act of suddenly focusing on something else entirely had something to do with it.  Maybe someone asking you for money you owe them has a similary effect?

Question: How can they clone living animals?
Answer: Well, most people use the word "clone" to mean something other than it actually is.  I blame the popular sci-fi use of cloning to refer to creating an exact duplicate of a person, along with their memories and personality and such.

In real life, cloning means to take the DNA of an animal, and create a new baby animal with the same DNA.  So it's more like creating a new identical twin baby of the original creature, and not at all like creating an exact copy of that creature.

Question: the difference between shampoo, conditioner, body soap, 2-in-1 and 3-in-1.
Answer: Shampoo is a type of soap designed for your hair. It gets grease out of your hair.   You should only shampoo your head. Don't put shampoo on the ends of your hair if you're a girl, it's too harsh and will damage your hair.

Conditioner puts the life back in hair after being shampooed. It moisturizes it.

Body soap is a soap designed for your skin.  It gets dirt off your skin.  You can't just wash dirt and grease off with water because water and oil don't mix.  Soap is an "emulsifier" it means that it makes it so water can wash away oil.

2-in-1 is conditioner and shampoo mixed together. So you only have to use one product to wash your hair.  There's a lot of rumors that it's bad for your hair.  From what I've learned, if you have very fine hair then it's better to not use a 2 in 1. But most hair works just fine for a 2 in 1.  

3 in 1 is shampoo, conditioner and body soap all mixed in one.  Guys usually use this. You can literally put it on any part of your body.

Question: how does your brain decide you like/dislike a certain song? What influences that? And why do we all like different songs?
Answer: Basically, it comes down to sensing versus perceiving. Generally everyone senses the same things the same way, from vision to taste, excluding those with sensory deprivations (colorblindness, deafness, etc.). 

Perceiving is a different story. It's all in your head. We attach meaning to different sensations. Like when you see your SO and get happy if you're in a great relationship. Basically you attach meaning to different sounds you hear. People tend to like major keys that are consonant, but of course not all because different people attach different meanings based on their experiences!

Hope this helps, this is the first ELI5 explanation that I've done! Feel free to ask further questions!

Question: How do LED thermometers work?
Answer: Op are you talking about Laser Temperature Guns/thermometers?? (That tell the temp after pointing the device and laser at an object) 

If you are: the laser doesn't have anything to do with the temp, it just aligns the sensor that is located right next to the laser on the front of the device.

Question: How is the 3D effect created in movies?
Answer: You need a second camera that is filming from a slightly different perspective, just like humans can see in three dimensions because they have two eyes set slightly apart. (In computer animation you can arbitrarily create a second perspective on a scene, so it's easier but it still requires extra rendering to produce the film.) You play back footage from both perspectives at the same time, but the viewer wears polarized lenses which filter the image so that the left eye sees one thing and the right eye another. You may recall older 3D using colored lenses for the same purpose.

You can also process a standard film to give it computer-generated 3D effects. This is a lot cheaper than filming a real 3D movie, but the result tends to be ugly.

Question: Why is sleep so comfortable shortly upon waking(especially when you have work/school/etc)?
Answer: When you wake up in the morning, you get something called sleep inertia. It's the groggyness you feel up to two hours (usually half an hour) after you have woken up. 

It's a "false" kind of sleepy, which makes you want to stay in bed. This combined with how comfortable your warm, soft bed is, makes it so darn hard to get up. 

_URL_1_

_URL_0_

edit: a word.

Question: What is the point of using pointers in programming?
Answer: Passing around the data itself can get very expensive.  It is fine when the data is small, like a single number or even a small string of text.  When you get to large objects or data structures like arrays, it becomes prohibitvely expensive to just pass the data.  Instead you pass around pointers to the data, so the data can just sit where it is, and whoever needs it can get to it via the pointer.

Furthermore, pointers give you a layer of abstraction above the data.  On this iteration through the loop, the pointer can point to data structure X.  On the next iteration through the loop, maybe it points to data structure X-prime.  This gives the programmer a general way to use different data objects without having to rewrite the code to copy them around all over the place.

You posted an example of an array data structure in Java below.  That is actually a pointer to the array, under the covers.  Languages like C and C++ make this pointer explicit, because they are intended for people who want to be a bit closer to the underlying hardware (for performance reasons, typically).

Question: What happens to your body that makes you dizzy when you get up too fast?
Answer: When you stand, blood briefly pools in your lower extremities. Your body undergoes what is called vasoconstriction, to equalize the blood pressure pretty quickly, by squeezing blood back up into your body. However, you have a brief period of insufficient blood in your upper body, leaving you to feel faint. People occasionally *do* faint from this in fact, if the effect is severe enough. 

This is called orthostatic hypotension.

Question: What would happen if an asteroid the size of the moon hit the earth?
Answer: The asteroid that may have been responsible for the extinction of the dinosaurs had a diameter of about ~~170~~ 10-15 km. The moon has a diameter of about 3,500 kilometers.

I'm not a scientist so I won't pretend to tell you exactly what will happen, but I think that it goes without saying this would be a catastrophe unlike anything seen before.

Question: My grandparents live in a small town, where all of the older residents have a land line number that begins with the same three numbers. Why is it the same?
Answer: Jesus christ, are you trying to make us feel old, OP? That's how ALL land line phone numbers used to work. If there was less than 10000 lines, they all belonged to the same exchange. You'd get 555-0000, next person got 555-0001, next person got 555-0002.

You kids and your cell phones and skype and hoola hoops and pacman video games and Zima...

Question: How do perishable food companies know the expiration date of their food/drink?
Answer: They "set" the date, they don't know it precisely.  

And they set that date based on a combination of studied observation when they can  (how long an apple will last) a set of conditions ("keep refrigerated" or "consume immediately on opening"), and known properties of the food and its packaging, and then add a safety margin to it.

The known properties can include how long a piece of cut meat remains safe before too many bacteria contact it and start growing, or how long before the vegetable starts to get brown and crinkly and so won't sell, or how pristine a plastic wrapper can expect to last if exposed to different temperatures and degrading light sources on a store shelf, or how many preservative chemicals are contained within the product, or when it starts to smell bad, or how long before freezer-burn sets in. 

All of that adds up to a time when it's very likely the product will no longer be AS SAFE (which is not the same as 'safe') to consume, as well as "as tasty" and "as visually appealing" and "as mixed uniformly and not all congealed".  Then they stick a time buffer on there so it expires or is 'best before' a bit before that.

Finally, that Best Before date has to pass the inspection of whatever food control agencies are out there. Your business will be shut down, for example, if you sell rotten meat.

Question: Why Nuking a asteroid that is headed for Earth is not a good strategy.
Answer: Let's start by assuming that we have the nukes to fracture the asteroid.  It may be a long shot, but nukes release a *lot* of energy and asteroids aren't necessarily as solid as a typical rock on earth.

The big thing is that the Earth is still being hit.  When you break an asteroid into two pieces, the energy of the original asteroid just gets split between the two, so all of that energy is still headed towards Earth.  This is equally true of breaking it into 2 pieces and breaking it into a million pieces.  You're not going to reduce an asteroid to sand-sized pieces, but even if you did all of that sand is going to hit the Earth.  This could be bad in and of itself as all of that energy gets transferred to the atmosphere in the form of heat, although that is probably not an apocalyptic event in and of itself.

However, the bit thing to realize is that the asteroid isn't going to be split into a billion pieces the size of pebbles/sand.  There are going to be *lots* of pieces that are still large enough to make it to the ground.  By breaking the asteroid up you are just spreading the destruction over a wider area of the planet's surface.  This would be like replacing a cannon ball with grapeshot--it's still highly destructive.

Ultimately nuking an asteroid would probably have *some* positive effect, but if all of the pieces are still hitting the Earth then it's not really worth it.  By contrast, if we find an apocalyptic asteroid with the Earth in its sites we can send a sapcecraft to it to alter its orbit ever so slightly so that it doesn't actually hit the Earth.  If we detect the object early enough then the change to its orbit would not have to be that much.

Question: Why are Canada Geese called such instead of Canadian Geese?
Answer: Because it's their name, not their nationality. If I live in New York, and my name is Bob France, you wouldn't call me French.

Question: With fight or flight, is there an effective way to overcome the freeze response?
Answer: Training. Specifically, what is known as "stress inoculation." 

This is why new recruits in the military have to complete tasks while being yelled at and generally messed with by their instructors- a crude imitation of the stress of combat. It's why high quality police training involves responding to crises amidst all sorts of artificial stressors like simulated ammunition and panicked victims. It's why professional boxers get hit again and again and again long before stepping into the ring. 

If you are routinely exposed to a certain kind of stress, you can become desensitized to it. Mental armor, so to speak. You can be trained to *act* when faced with stress rather than freezing up.

Question: Did Rob Ford actually help the city of Toronto?
Answer: [Here's a good article that goes over the positive outcome for Toronto](_URL_0_)

tl;dr: While Ford's campaign was based on "stopping the gravy train", he never found one. Gravy leaked out of small cracks in municipal government. Ford saved $100,000 here and there by combining depts, etc.

Didn't see it mentioned in the article, but ~$12mil saved by privatizing garbage collection.

Started MUCH needed repairs on the elevated Gardiner Expressway (only highway that serves the direct downtown area).

Nothing came out of it thanks to council and provincial government, but Ford was adamant about adding and expanding subway lines.

Question: Why are commenters on YouTube videos so douchey?
Answer: 1. \ >  1 billion user accounts, so probably some double-digit percentage of the worlds population

2. no sorting or gating, random people from any community can trip across any other video, and some will. 

3. Fans. Youtube culture encourages the type of rabid fan building that . . . okay, look, many of the heavier users on youtube are teenagers. Youtube brags that among teenagers, youtube celebrities are better known than other celebrities. There are many sensible teens. There are many sensible teens who like things that I don't like. There are also many teens who embody the worst of, say, justin bieber fans. 

4. Let's combine these three points and imagine the youtube comments as the community basis for flamewars that resemble 'psx vs. n64' or 'ps2 vs. xbox', but the sides are obscure, sometimes wholly imagined by only one side, you can't always discern what point someone is making on an unrelated video from their comment if you aren't part of the sub-community, and youtube comments are the base point for these flamewars because the celebrities are wholly on youtube. You ever see those collapsed comments which begin with something like: "I like the vocals at 2:17" [[see 17 collapsed comments]] "Shitting idiot, Prussia was its own country back then and can't be blamed for that!"? Okay, that's a real example that was an argument between (I'm ashamed to have searched this up), a hetelia fan and a fan of some youtube channel that uses DnD minis to represent european countries to make racist punchlines. 

5. People who aren't into that . . . stuff . . . stop commenting. People who are into that start commenting more. 

6. This means there is almost always a confrontational tone/argument expectation in youtube comment sections. Which means some of the more agreeable folks who are left still commenting, are also given into interpreting other comments in the worst possible light. "Of course it's cavitation!" "Well, it's more likely a heat pump operating through sound waves passing through the centre, which is why it needs a certain frequency differential to produce heat past unity. Cavitation wouldn't explain the heat production beyond 100%, and I bet the core of that freezes after too long" "You're an idiot, there's no need for any of your fancy heat pump BS, look up cavitation!" (Real comments on a rotary water heating engine. . . albeit toned down)



And then . . . what's left? A whole bunch of people arguing with each other across the breath of youtube, where 99% of everyone doesn't know what the hell they're on about, and the rest of everyone else commenting is doing so with the expectation of horrible comments  &  arguments to follow. 

We are left, in short, with the worst fraction of a billion user accounts. And the bottom 1% of that is pretty deep.

Question: Why do basements/cellars tend to attract mold and mildew so much?
Answer: A cellar is usually colder then the outside as it is kept dark and surrounded by cold dirt. Humidity is based on not only the amount of water in the air but also the temperature of the air. So when air gets down into the basement and gets cooled down its humidity increases. All life needs water to thrive. Basements with a lot of humidity will have a lot more humidity so it is easier for mold to get the water it needs.

Question: Is it possible to have more than one type of flu (bacterial or viral) running in your body at the same time?
Answer: Just to clarify a little more...

"Flu" does not just mean illness. It is specifically illness caused by *Influenza* viruses. In fact 'flu' is short for 'influenza'. The term "bacterial flu" is misleading because it means a bacterial infection occurring because your immune system has been weakened by the flu virus. So you can't have bacterial flu without having "actual" influenza caused by the influenza virus. So your answer is in your question. You can only have what is confusingly described as "bacterial flu" if you have viral flu.

If you're using the word "flu" to describe any illness with similar symptoms then yes, you can definitely have as many infections as you would care to pick up. It will eventually kill you. Immune disorders (like AIDS) are such a problem because you end up with every disease and infection out there and it becomes impossible to stop the sufferer getting sick and dying from any and all kinds of infections.

Question: What is the difference between "Partly Cloudy" and "Partly Sunny" forecasts?
Answer: Partly Cloudy means blue skies with some clouds


Partly Sunny means a cloudy sky with some occasional sun

Question: Why do humans express ourselves creatively?
Answer: **TL;DR**: *We have intelligence and spare time and a desire to accomplish something and to leave something behind or give something to other people. Being creative uses the first to fill the second and fulfill those desires.*

In terms of flair, this isn't so much about culture as it is biology.

The first reason is that we're a thinking animal that isn't driven solely by instinct. We have thought processes that very very routinely move us out of the realms of "automatically do X when the environment is like Y", which cause a caterpillar to munch when placed on a leaf or a deer to run when it hears a loud noise.

Then there's our lifespan and living standards. We do not sleep or have to search for food and shelter and comfort and mating every single second of every single day. We have "down time" and the intelligence to both use that "down time", and want to use that "down time" somehow or we'll get bored.

Finally that intelligence causes many of us to seek creative satisfaction, and to serve some purpose. We want something called 'fulfillment' out of life. It can be a public form of fulfillment for some where they're recognized by others for what they do, a feeling of pride for having helped others feel better by doing an excellent stand-up comedy or rap song or dance routine that spreads joy, or an entirely internal drive which causes someone to feel very satisfied when they have accomplished something creative like completing a work of sculpture. 

All three things - time, ability enabled by intelligence, and the need for some form of personal fulfillment, lead to creative expression. And the level varies greatly from person to person, dictating how central that need is to the way they live their life.

Question: When people go outside to take a breath of fresh air, why does that help calm them down?
Answer: Going outside firstly removes the trigger and stimulus that's causing the stress - and so they can get out of an emotionally charged situation.  Fresh air may also be a change in temperature, so they have a different physical response too, and that may help them breathe deeper, giving the stress hormones a chance to disperse

Question: Program Files and Program Files (x86). Why are there two different ones and what is the difference between them?
Answer: The processor in your computer works based on instructions. Instructions like "add these two numbers", "move this number to somewhere else in the computer's memory", "erase this section of memory". 

When someone writes a computer program in a programming language, the compiler turns their code into a series of instructions for the processor. To make this easier there are standardized "instruction sets" that computer makers use that are the same across many processors. The most common instruction set in computers is called x86. This set is based off the instruction set for an Intel processor in the 1970s called the Intel 8086. Since then the standard has been updated many times to add new instructions as processors got more powerful. 

Because this instruction set is so old, it any processor that uses it is only able to use 4GB of memory in your computer. The numbers it can use as addresses in the computers memory can only go up to 2^32, which is 4,294,967,296 (aka 4 gigabytes, giga means billion.) that is to say, x86 processors have 32 bit wide address space.

X86-64 (sometimes just called x64) is an addition to x86 that lets it address memory in a space 2^64 bits wide, allowing up to 256 terabytes (256 thousand gigabytes) of memory space.


Basically, programs in Program Files are put together (compiled) for versions of Windows that support x86-64 processors, while programs in the Program Files (X86) folder are built for x86 (32 bit) versions of Windows. 64 bit versions of Windows should have no trouble running x86 programs.

Question: I just read the Brian Banks story; Why are women who falsley accuse men of rape hardly ever if at all sent to prison?
Answer: If they were proved, in a court of law, beyond a reasonable doubt, to have knowingly and falsely accused someone, they do get sent to prison.

Question: How is Yahoo still a top 5 most visited website?
Answer: A tremendous number of browsers came with it auto-homepaged in the earlier days of the internet. It was the preferred way of accessing search functionality when the web really started taking off, and it had excellent branding.

And that stuck, and stuck hard. A whole lot of older users have it as their home page, so every time they browse the web they start there because that's what they did ten or fifteen years ago.

Question: What exactly are Reddit bots and who runs them?
Answer: They're automated computer programs.    Whoever writes them runs them.   Anyone can write a bot and read Reddit posts and reply.   Automoderator is a special bot that's written by Reddit staff

Question: What does the term "too big to fail" mean?
Answer: It's a commonly used phrase to mean "this company is so big and does so much business that if it were to fail and go under, it would have massive negative effects on the economy as a whole."

For example: We have a lot of banks in the US, but we have some *really really big* ones, too. When those banks started to fail, they were big enough that they caused massive, very bad effects to the economy of the *entire country* and frankly even extending out to foreign countries as well. 

Since those companies are *too big to fail,* the government needed to step in and help them to not fail in order to prevent another Great Depression.

Question: Charlottesville Protest  &  Violence
Answer: Biased prejudiced people are feeling empowered since the last general election. So they are coming out in a mass rally.  Some of them are quite willing to use violence.

This is reminiscent of the Brown Shirts in Germany before 
WWII. 

The Psychology of this behavior requires a book. Books have been written about this. [Here is a list of 16 good books](_URL_0_) I especially liked the one about Henrietta Lacks.

But these books do not really describe the mind set of the protestors. 

Beyond Hate: White Power and Popular Culture (The Cultural Politics of Media and Popular Culture) may be one book which does. I have not read it.

Many people in these groups feel disenfranchised. They actually yearn to return to the days not long past when being white automatically meant being selected for a job or admission to college.

Question: If your voice sounds higher than what it sounds like to you, how can you sing the correct pitch?
Answer: Practice listening to yourself and *actually* hearing your own voice. Singing in a small, acoustically live room (like a bathroom) can help. I recommend purchasing some pvc pipe and making a small phone shape so that you can sing into one end and have it projected directly into your ear.

I can almost certainly assure you it is not a biological problem.

Question: Why are there no Grape flavored Yogurts?
Answer: Chobani made a grape yogurt, but I don't think it sold very well.  Grape and yogurt doesn't really mix in a way that is large scale marketable to consumers.  Yogurt can be kind of sour, mixing that with grape is not a flavor many people can get behind.

Question: Please ELI5 the concept of IPOs and what are the effects of this IPO to companies that did not previously have this.
Answer: IPO = Initial Public Offering

Could also be called "Taking a company public" 

ELI5 version - You own a company. It is not small, but not as large as you want it to be. You could borrow money from a bank in order to grow your business, but for a bunch of reasons banks are not always willing or able to loan you large sums of money. Instead, you offer to sell ownership of your company to the general public - in the form of shares - in exchange for their money.

In effect, your company is now partially owned by private individuals and investors, and you have more money to invest in further business development.

There are huge legal implications of this. Every country has security laws which must be followed when you take a company public. This is mostly to prevent abuse of the public through various scams and insider trading.

Question: Why is tinfoil (aluminum foil) so heat resistant?
Answer: Heat resistent in what way?

If you refer to "Why doesn't it melt", simply because it's melting point is incredibly high, much higher than your grill can produce (​(660.32 °C, ​1220.58 °F).

If you are instead refering to "Why doesn't it get super hot to the touch" then you're building on a wrong premise: it isn't heat resistant at all and does get hot. It gets just as hot as the food underneath it. However tinfoil is so thin and so large that any heat that it does have dissapitates into the surrounding air almost instantly. Things that have little mass cannot hold as well to their energy as more massive things, and things with large surface area cool down faster than things that have lower area.

Question: How exactly does alcohol get you "drunk"
Answer: Alcohol is a chemical that affects almost every organ in the human body, but in particular it interferes with the brains' cells abilities to communicate with each other. If you drink alcohol faster than your liver and kidneys can process it, it begins to build up in the bloodstream and hence gets carried to your brain, where it basically blocks some of the normal brain behaviour from occurring.

[This paper explains alcohol's physical effects](_URL_0_) in a reasonably simple to understand format.

Question: Why do french fries taste good while they're hot and nasty cold?
Answer: Your tongue can detect basic flavours only: sweetness, saltiness, sourness, etc. Most of what we call the sense of taste is actually sense of smell. (An experiment can confirm this: peel an apple and a raw potato and cut a cube from each. Pinch your nose and eat both, and it may be hard to tell which is which.)

The smell of food while eating comes from molecules being carried from the food into your nose via the back of your mouth. Food that is hot gives off loads of these molecules, but food that is cold gives off hardly any. Hence a large part of the flavour of food is lost when it is cold, so your fries no longer taste as good.

Question: How are we able to measure space?
Answer: There are several methods to calculate the distance of a celestial body. Which one is used depends on the exact circumstance. Here are some of the most important methods:

---

* **Parallax**: Earth orbits the sun. In the process of this orbit, we change our position in space relative to a celestial body (just like you see a nearby tree in a different position if you move 10 steps to one side) Using trigonometry, we can calculate the distance to the celestial body in question. 
 * Advantages: very precise for close objects, no complicated instruments needed. 
 * Disadvantage: only possible for close objects 


---



* **Spectral emission**: Stars emit photons with specific wavelengths based on the material they are fusing in their core. We can identify the composition of a star by analyzing those photons.  Due to the expansion of space, however, the wavelengths of photons emitted very far away get redshifted. That means, their wavelengths get longer the further they travel. By comparing the wavelengths of the photons we *measure* to the wavelengths the photons *should have* we can calculate the distance those photons traveled. And thus the distance to the celestial body. 

 * Advantage: Possible over longer distances

 * Disadvantage: The object has to be bright enough so we can measure spectral lines reliably 


---



* **Standard candles**: Standard candles are celestial bodies of known luminosity (~brightness). We know this luminosity due to the characteristics of some bodies (special types of super novae etc.) By comparing the absolute brightness to the apparent brightness (the brightness the object has vs the brightness we see from the distance) we can calculate the distance to the standard candle. By identifying standard candles in distant galaxies and nebulae, we can infer the distance of those structures. 

 * Advantage: Possible over long distances

 * Disadvantage: We need to find standard candles


---

Question: How do nuclear launch codes work exactly, and can just about anyone use it?
Answer: This was covered in part by This American Life recently. 

_URL_0_

"So, here's the thing about the codes that people don't realize. It's not like he has a piece of paper in his pocket. It's like, here are the nuclear codes. It doesn't work that way. How it works is, there's a military officer that walks around with what's called a Football. That officer, he's got more experience than I do. And at the end of the day, if the president goes off the handle and says, nuke these guys because I don't like them, we're taught, in the military, as officers, that we have a moral obligation to refuse orders that are not moral. So if my commander tells me to do that, and it is not moral, I have an obligation to tell him to [BLEEP] off."

Question: Why do I always wake up early after a night of hard drinking?
Answer: It also messes with your sleep cycle. I'm afraid I can't remember exactly how it goes about doing this, but I saw a documentary where the person who the sleep-scientists gave several large glasses of red wine ended up staying in REM and light sleep relatively longer, and only attaining deep sleep for a short time before coming back into lighter sleep at an early stage than normal

Question: What the Drake and Meek Mill beef was all about.
Answer: Meek called Drake out for using a ghost writer (aka, having someone else write his songs and hiding that). Drake got offended and started a one-sided twitter war while Meek sat back and laughed.

Drake made a dis track, Meek still sat back and laughed.

It's a joke because it's like watching a 3 year old throw a tantrum and tell their parents they hate them and they're running away forever while the parents are like "yea, sure, uh huh, finish your juice sweetie".

Question: Why are porn sites more likely to infect the user's computer with viruses than other sites?
Answer: Impulse clicking.

People are more likely to ignore warnings to see a naked chick than to read an insurance quote.  The are also more likely to be embarrassed about what they were doing and not report it.

Scammers know this, are are much more likely to use porn sites to deliver malware.

Question: Why do loud noises seem to physically hurt? Is it all in our brain signals? Do deaf people feel pain from them?
Answer: Pain is how our body signals to our brain that we're in a situation that's potentially causing us harm, so we're motivated to try to get out of that situation. 

Loud enough noises can physical damage your ear, and as a result, we've evolved so that somewhere before the threshold of damage to our delicate ear parts, a loud enough sound will cross a pain threshold. 

That pain is your ear telling your brain that being around these loud noises is bad for you, and you should try to get yourself away from them before your hearing is damaged.

Question: How do GBA ROMS actually work? How do people recode entire games from Game Boys and DS' to work on the computer?
Answer: This is actually very straightforward. 

The ROMs are basically the software that's usually on the cartridge (or whatever medium). 

They don't get recoded to run on a PC (or android, or whatever). People use emulators that pretend to be a Gameboy or DS or whatever, and the ROM thinks it's running natively. 

And you can search to find answers to how emulators work.

Question: How do carnivores like Tigers and Lions get enough nutrient balance by only eating meat?
Answer: One, By eating things like blood, skin, organs, bones, etc. Obviously that animal they ate *contains all vitamins and minerals required for that prey animal to live* so consuming all, or most, of a prey animal will include a wider variety of vitamins and nutrients. 

Humans can do this too, for example fish liver oil, whale blubber etc,. Whale blubber contains high amounts of vitamin C.

Two, Different animals have different dietary needs. We primates require Vitamin C in our diets but we can manufacture other vitamins , many other mammals, including cats and dogs, *can actually synthesize their own vitamin C* so it isn't a dietary requirement.


Cats require vitamin A from animal sources, they cannot process carotenoids(from plants) into vitamin A. Dogs, and us, can eat a carrot and make vitamin A. Different animals have different needs and different capabilities to manufacture vitamins or to dietary input into essential compounds.

Question: Why does some food get freezer-burned while others don't?
Answer: Packaging. I wrap my stuff in plastic wrap, then foil, then a ziplock baggie and  I never get it.

Question: Pay-to-play politics
Answer: It refers to how big donors get more access to politicians. If the average person contacts a national-level politician, they'll probably get a form letter reply from an intern. If someone who donated $20,000 contacts them, they'll get a call from the politician. High-level appointed positions are often given to big donors. Things like ambassador jobs to Caribbean island nations are one of the more common ones. But high-level advisory and even cabinet-level positions are often given to big donors too.

Question: How do we measure calories in a product?
Answer: I hope you're talking food here, because my answer relies on that


Short answer: very poorly

Real answer: calories are a unit of energy, the amount required to heat one gram of water one degrees Celsius at standard temperature and pressure (normal earth conditions). So to measure food calories, we light it on fire and see how much the temperature of our system changes, and we can use that to measure the energy in the food

Problem 1: we aren't firey pits that burn everything we eat, we do complex biology and we can't actually process everything, so the numbers are generally imperfect estimates

Problem 2: we can't measure all samples of a single thing. Any item can vary wildly in sugars and fats, even between say, two bananas, and so our numbers are just an average of a pretty small sample

Question: when I want to type an apostrophe, I would hit the key next to the enter key on my keyboard and get this character ' but why does this alternate character ’ show up in text that I have copied off the web? Are they meant to be used interchangeably?
Answer: The prevailing wisdom is ' should be used for feet or minutes, while the curlier ’ should be used as a quote or apostrophe.

Question: Nowadays most money is digital, what prevents a bank to edit its computer records with another trillion $?
Answer: Digital money isn't just a number in a spreadsheet, it's an accounting of where the money came from. If there's no log showing that money was debited from one account and credited to another, it's not really there.

Banks are regulated, audited, and taxed. Sure, a banker with enough seniority could probably create some fake money, and get away with it for a short time. But they wouldn't get away with it forever, because the numbers just wouldn't add up and before long somebody would figure it out and they'd go to prison.

Question: How and why did the body associate tears with sadness?
Answer: Without getting too technical, the short version is: When you are sad, your body released hormones(ACTH and Leu-enkephalin) through tears that can help you feel better(reduce stress and painkillers).

Question: Why does the sky look grainy at dusk?
Answer: Just a slight malfunction while rendering the night sky. Projecting a holographic observable universe isn't easy work, you know.

Question: Why do colors combine to make other colors?
Answer: Colors are a response your brain makes to picking up certain wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation striking receptor cells in your brain. When this happens, those cells send signals to your brain, and your brain creates the image.

Certain combinations of stimulation on those cells cause your brain to generate different colors, to help further discriminate, because this is a beneficial evolutionary adaptation (harder for things to blend together).

Color itself is not a property of light or anything. Rather, a product of your brain interpreting it.

Question: How does electronic currency mining work?
Answer: Simplified, with bitcoin, the "coins" are a long chain of solutions to a convoluted math problem.  Each coin has to be discovered mathematically by computing out the problem, and it's designed so that each new coin's problem is harder than the one before, and that only a set number of coins will be discovered.  After that, the coins are to be used as currency.  Until then, as long as each coin is valuable enough, there's money to be made by devoting lots of computers to working through the problem to find the next coins.  That's bitcoin mining.

Question: why is the Wilhelm scream so overused in movies?
Answer: It's an inside joke/running gag. Sound mixing is a very tedious job, so they like to have fun. Like how Pixar movies almost have "A113" in their movies.

Question: When dieting and losing weight, is there a universal right way? Also do cravings mean something? And other ?
Answer: The right way is to utilize more calories than you consume.  All diets that succeed do this, all diets that fail, fail to do this.  

People may be more or less effective at eating less calories, or at burning more, but the equation is always the same.  

It is possible that combinations of foods make you feel better or worse and that these things enable you to stick with it more.  It is certainly healthy to avoid HF corn syrup in general, but from a pure weight loss perspective it is not all that important.  Cravings can certainly happen with sugar swings, but again...thats about your ability to sustain a pattern of reduced calorie intake and increased calorie burning.  

Eat the right number of calories.  Then...eat a good balance of foods.  Exercise.  That's the recipe for both health and weight loss.

Question: Why "Gravity" Does Not Exist
Answer: Newton said gravity is a mysterious force that affects everything with mass. He didn't know what causes this force but he did create some useful equations.

Then Einstein came up with General Relativity. He says that mass bends space-time and that's why things are attracted to each other. For Example, if you put 2 heavy balls on a trampoline, they warp the trampoline and move towards each other. This is just an analogy, but it helps give you the idea.

This warping of space-time has some other side affects, which allows General Relativity to predict and explain thing that Newton's law doesn't (like small changes in the orbit of planets, light bending around stars, and clocks in GPS satellites running slower).

Question: Some genes, increase the likelihood of getting certain diseases (like cancer) why?
Answer: It's kind of misleading to think of the gene as being exclusively for cancer-causing purposes. Typically the "cancer genes" people talk about are variations on a gene that codes for sometime useful. 

Like when people say they have the BRCA1 gene (the gene most commonly associated with genetic breast cancers), they don't actually mean they have a genetic sequence in a place where everyone else has nothing. Everyone has a BRCA1 gene, it's just that normally it codes for tumor-suppressing proteins. In people with certain mutations in that region, however, the proteins that it codes for are not produced correctly and thus do not properly suppress the uncontrolled growth of cells.

Question: What determines a person's sense of humor?
Answer: Mostly psychological.  When a person has good sense of humor, it generally means they are happy, socially confident and likely to have a healthy perspective on life.  But this has exceptions because humor has a dark side.  There are people who use self-defeating humor; also humor is used to criticize and manipulate others through teasing, sarcasm and ridicule.  So being funny isn't necessarily an indicator of good social skills and well-being.  It all depends on the kind of humor the person uses.

Question: What are the primary cost saving mechanisms of single-payer systems?
Answer: If you think about what a private insurance business looks like right now and notice that a huge expensive fraction of it provides no actual care, or even actively works to AVOID providing care, you'll start to see how single-payer systems can be more efficient. 

I'll list some costs associated with private health insurance which are absent or greatly reduced with single payer:
1. Agent salaries and commissions 
2. Phone center employees and facilities
3. Billing infrastructure and salaries
4. Website maintenance 
5. Advertising salaries and media buys
6. Legal services; compliance, contracts, civil suits, mergers, etc.
7. Adverse legal settlements
8. paperwork to customers (policy changes etc.)
9. Every single contact between insurance co. and health care provider, you pay for both sides of that interaction (provider's representative and insurance representative). Also, inevitable protracted conflicts are costly.
10. Actuarial analysis/business planning
11. Executive salary
12. Company profit!

Question: - How Do Solid State Hard Drives Work?
Answer: Flash drives work by having individual cells that are left with an electrical charge by depositing extra electrons (and thus negative charge) that is maintained even after power is removed. It's almost like a tiny series of microscopic batteries that is either set positive/negative or negative/positive.

From an answer about general storage:  _URL_0_

Question: Why do floppy disks and SD cards have a mechanical lock switch to block access, when anyone can just flip the switch and access the data inside?
Answer: The lock on floppies didn't deny access to the data. It locked out writing over it. It's more a a precaution to keep your data safe from yourself.

Question: What is the definition of life?
Answer: All known life has a few things in common, organisms (things that are alive) have these in common: they're composed of a cell or cells, undergo metabolism, maintain homeostasis, grow, respond to stimuli, and reproduce. There are a few things that seem to do a few but not all of these processes, like viruses, which is why they're classified as nonlife or as some kind of intermediate gray area between life and nonlife.

We don't necessarily "know" nonlife mutated into life sometime in the past, but we view it as the most likely scenario because we do know that the Earth once had no life, and now, today, it does have life, and also because we know the processes it would have to undergo are theoretically possible.

Question: Blackfriday
Answer: It's generally the start of the holiday/Christmas shopping of the season. It is referred to as "black" Friday as most stores will receive so much business that their daily totals will be "in the black" meaning positive profits vs. operating costs, as opposed to "in the red" which means a loss.

Question: Weird password policies
Answer: Actually, your suggestion of a possible password might be safer. I vaguely remember some xkcd on this...

Question: Is there any benefit to washing your hands before going to the bathroom?
Answer: Well, if you are handling something that you shouldn't get onto your mucus membranes, it might be a good idea to wash your hands before wiping your ass.

Like, for example, if you are cooking with chili powders.

Question: What is that awful thumping sounds I hear when only one car window is open?
Answer: your car is basically acting like a flute, with the air pressure passing over the open window.

Question: Why does good cellphone service/4G come and go, even in the exact same location.
Answer: Could be a number of reasons. Most commonly:

1.  That is because cell coverage is a "breathing" network.   As more people use the tower the less power an antenna can allocate for you so the coverage shrinks.  As people log off or move out the more power an antenna has and the better your service will be.  This is especially true if there is rough terrain between you and the tower. 

2.  Your between two towers or two "sectors" aka antennas of the same tower.  You could constantly handing off between two towers which causes your tower to fluctuate.  Also if your between two antennas the same hand off occurs.   The more antennas and or towers that can talk to you the higher the noise floor or pollution and the less good signal you get. 

3.   The tower your at isn't maintained well.  We have metric reports on cell sites where we work and can usually trend when problems occur.   Your provider may be out of fucks to give and won't spend the money to dispatch a tower crew to fix. 

Source:   I work for a tier 3 regional carrier engineering department as a director for 10 years and launched CDMA/evdo/lte.

Question: Distillation as it pertains to alcoholic drinks
Answer: Once the liquid that they are making the liquor out of has been fermented, and has alcohol in it, then the alcohol needs to be concentrated. Alcohol has a slightly lower boiling point than water, so they heat the liquid (which is called a mash by the way) to just below the boiling point of water. The alcohol boils off while the majority of the water remains liquid, separating the two. The alcohol vapor is then cooled and condensed back into a more concentrated and higher proof liquid. Then they generally age it in a barrel.

Question: Are magnets just found or does man make them be what they are? How does this happen?
Answer: Both, magnets occur naturally and we can make them.  So electrons are like fanbois and ~~neutrons~~ protons are like hot babes.  The bois orbit in the friend zone of the babes, never getting too close, never getting too far away either.  If a bunch of babes and their bois go to a mall, and there's a sword outlet on one end and a Victoria's Secret on the other end, then the bois are going to generally head towards the sword outlet, and away from the lingerie shop due to embarassment.  At this point, if someone shoots a size-Large anime T-shirt (a packet of electricity) into the front of the crowd and the fanbois start to excitedly pass it around and it swiftly gets passed towards the sword outlet.  This is what we call magnetism.

Now sometimes the fanbois happen to be arranged nicely, such as in the food court.  This is natural magnetism, and generally what you see in ferromagnetism (natural iron magnets).  Sometimes you have a Victoria's Secret nearby and this is called induced magentism or paramagnetism.

Now sometimes everyone is randomly scattered around but you have some bro dudes walk by that the babes are attracted to but the fanbois try to get in the way.  After the bros leave, the fanbois are still standing in the same (now ordered) spot, and this can be an example of magnetic domains, or using magnets to create more magnets.

I hope that was as entertaining as it was explanatory?

Question: Why do we cover railway tracks with rocks ? Does it improve the stability when a train goes by ? (due to the vibrations)
Answer: Although it doesn't look it, the ballast is pretty solid. It distributes the load from the passing trains, keeps down unwanted vegetation (there aren't many plants than can grow on rocks) and enables water to drain away.

This last one is very important. Where I live, there was some flooding back in May, and parts of the railway line were submerged. The water, having just washed down from the hillsides, was very muddy, and so the ballast is caked in mud.

And so right now the line is closed for a couple of weeks while they clean the ballast. This is because the mud is preventing the water from draining away properly. In the winter, the wet mud would likely freeze, and water expands when it freezes: and so it might actually lift the tracks slightly. If we have a winter where the ballast freezes, unfreezes and freezes again a few times, that could loosen the tracks and make them dangerous.

Question: If I were to only rinse my body with water to clean myself, how clean would my body be?
Answer: Our modern obsession with cleaning our bodies on a daily basis is still relatively new - you can get away without washing your body without too many ill effects, depending on your lifestyle - yes, you will get smellier, and dirtier hair and skin. However, most of the bacteria and yeast that lives on the human skin is not harmful on the skin; it is only if it enters your bloodstream that it would be a problem (so if you got a cut, or if you scratched yourself and broke the skin, you stand a greater risk of infection). And, of course, failure to wash your hands can be a major source of spreading pathogens and contamination, so there's that.

There was a documentary a few years ago where a woman went without showering for six weeks, to investigate the effects. Bacterial swabs were taken before and after the six week period by researchers at the university of Leeds. What they found was that, although by the end of the six weeks the 'hotspots' for bacterial action (groin, armpits etc.) contained 5,000 times more bacteria than at the start, this was still within the 'normal' parameters for a human. Unfortunately, the only source I can find for it is a [Daily Mail article](_URL_0_), and it is important to remember this is a sample size of one. Also, part of her inspiration behind doing it was based on a misunderstanding of cause-and-effect; wondering if chemicals in grooming products (sales of which have been increasing year-on-year) caused increases in cancer (incidents of which also increased year-on-year). However, if you ignore the unfounded hypotheses, and just focus on the cleanliness issue, it is quite interesting. She found that she didn't smell that bad, and although her hair looked very greasy, she thought her skin looked better.

So, it all depends what you mean by 'clean'. Do you mean less smelly? In which case, yes, you can clean your body reasonably well with just water, and scrubbing - particularly if you use some sort of exfoliating agent (exfoliation is basically using something to remove the uppermost layers of dead skin and the various buildups - if you were just to use water, you would use a mechanical exfoliator, such as a coarse sponge). That will take care of a lot of the breeding ground that bacteria can use, and, as long as you wash like this on a regular basis, you probably won't get that smelly. Whilst soap does wash away the oils that can contain bacteria (so potentially making you 'cleaner'), it is important to remember that our skin needs that oil, and getting rid of it on a regular basis can cause our skin to dry out.

I am unaware of any studies that compare the bacteria on the human skin after washing with water, compared to washing with water and soap. However, as stated above, most of the bacteria on the human skin will not do you any harm as long as it doesn't get into the blood stream. So, as long as you do wash your hands with soap, and disinfect any wounds as and when they occur, you could easily get away with not using soap on your body when you wash.

Edit: clarified exfoliation.

Question: Why at high speeds on a highway with the window down create s fast pulsating air sound?
Answer: Have you ever blown air over the top of a bottle and made that cool "hum" noise? If so, I'm sure you've noticed, the tone gets higher pitched with a smaller bottle, or with more liquid in it.

The same thing is happening in your car, only on a much larger scale, which is why the tone is so low (and sounds like a "wub wub" instead of a "hum").

The window is open, acting like the opening of a bottle. The rest of the car is essentially sealed and mostly empty inside, acting like a container. Travel the right speed with the window open the right amount, and that reverberation will occur just like you were blowing the right speed over the mouth of a bottle.

The technical reason this happens is because air pressure drops as relative speed increases. The air inside your car is "not moving" (relative to the car) and is "high pressure", while the air outside is moving at whatever speed the car is, and is relatively "low pressure". Basically, the air outside sucks out some of the air inside, which makes it speed up, which drops the pressure, which makes some of the air outside come in, before repeating over and over and over.

Question: Why does it take longer to develop professional baseball players than professional football or basketball players?
Answer: The average length of a professional baseball player's career is longer than that of an NBA or NFL player, largely because the athletic skills needed don't drop off as dramatically once the player gets into their mid to late 20s.

So, since a baseball player has a longer career, they can take longer to develop the skills.

Question: China's one child policy and their economy
Answer: The one child policy was that if you had more than one child you would be fined, and then more heavily taxed. They did not take and kill children. 

You are correct that without a population growth high enough to at least replace the populace they are looking at economic collapse. That is why this year they changed the law to be a 2 child limit before you start facing fees and heavier taxes.

Question: Is it possible to have any more than 3 spatial dimensions?
Answer: There are only 4 dimensions that we can experience (3 spatial, one time). Other dimensions can (and do) exist in mathematics at least. The problem is that we cannot properly imagine these dimensions, since our minds cannot truly comprehend/ visualize a fourth spatial dimension. We can sorta represent 4D object in 3D, just like we do with 3D objects in 2D but there is nothing (that I know of) in our universe that expresses 4-dimensionality in any meaningful sense

Question: Why do things with lower resolutions look bad only after seeing something higher in resolution?
Answer: Because the brain is really good at filling in blanks. You're not seeing the picture itself, you're seeing the thing it is a picture of. You don't see a collection of brown and green pixels, you see a tree. It's not until you have something to compare it against that you notice the difference.

Question: Why do new cars smell the way they do?
Answer: because of left over chemicals from the plastics and the leather or faux leather treatments are evaporating into a mostly sealed environment

Question: I tried to sign up for health insurance through _URL_0_ but I don't make enough money to get subsidized...what do I do? [from Florida]
Answer: If you do not make enough money to get subsidized, you may make little enough money to qualify for Medicaid. 

Unfortunately, due to Florida's decision not to expand the Medicaid program, there is a gap between the maximum income to qualify for Medicaid and the minimum income to qualify for subsidies. If you fall within this gap, you probably will not be able to get affordable insurance. (You'll be exempt from the individual mandate, though, so you mostly just aren't affected.)

Question: how come there is thunder/lightning during storms but during blizzards/snowstorms there is no thunder?
Answer: Actually, there is! [See this!](_URL_0_ snow) 

That said, the reason you don't usually hear thunder during snowstorms is because snow actually suppresses the sound! It basically absorbs it, since it's just fluff in the air, drastically reducing the distance it can be heard! While a regular thunderstorm can be heard for miles and miles, a thundersnow is limited to just 2-3 miles of sound. 

As for why it's so rare to see a storm like that? You need moisture in the air to produce a thunderstorm. In the summer this is easy, as warm air holds water better. Unfortunately, or fortunately, cold air holds less moisture, and as a result you need special conditions for thundersnow. A warm, wet front trailing or leasing a cold front can produce it. 

Places like the gulf of Mexico will see it more often, due to readily available warm moist air!

Question: Why do nuclear weapons create "better looking" mushroom clouds than other explosives?
Answer: Most of the photographs you see of nuclear mushroom clouds are of stereotypically "mushroomy" appearance, and taken within the first minute or so of the blast. This is when they look maximally like mushrooms, because the extremely hot nuclear fireball is rising up, encountering resistance from the dense air of the atmosphere, and flattening. 

If you look at pictures of late-stage mushroom clouds — e.g. 10 minutes later, when they are at maximum altitude — they often don't look very mushroomy. So [here is Hiroshima quite some time after detonation](_URL_5_) — it has "anvilled." [Here is late-stage Nagasaki](_URL_6_) — a lot less mushroomy than the classic early stage photos. [Here is Castle Bravo at 60 seconds](_URL_7_) — still mushroomy — and [here it is at 16 minutes](_URL_0_) — not very mushroomy, more of a column. [Here's a nuclear cloud that was set off too high to create a stem, so it is just the top](_URL_2_). And so on — there is a lot more variation in nuclear mushroom clouds than most people realize, because [they often see just the same clouds repeated time after time](_URL_4_) and don't realize that these are usually very early-stage clouds.

As an aside, the size of the "top" of the cloud is related to the size of the fireball in question. Nuclear detonations have very large fireballs most of the time. The heat of the fireball determines how high it rises (and nuclear fireballs are _much_ hotter than conventional explosions). As it rises, it encounters air resistance which sets up what is known as a [Rayleight-Taylor instability](_URL_1_) condition. This means the less dense part (the fireball) starts to bend back on itself as a torus. The higher it rises, the more it squishes out into an anvil or pancake shape. If it is large enough to hit the troposphere, that can squish it out even more ([and for very high yield weapons, a little "tendril" of cloud can squirt through the very top, which looks weird](_URL_3_)). Whether there is a stem or not depends on how low the fireball was detonated and its width varies as a percentage of the total size of the fireball.

Question: Power button on a smart phone
Answer: I suggest that you read a few button tutorials for embedded systems like arduino or raspberry pi. The processor can read the state of the buttons at any time. So they do this in a loop. When they notice the button is pressed they start a timer and wait for the button to be released. By measuring the time it takes for you to release the button they can do different functions. To save on battery they might not do it in a loop but rather have an interrupt logic in place that will signal the CPU whenever the state of a button changes and make it run the button checking logic. There may also be additional logic on the circuit board that detects if the power button have been held down for some time without the CPU reacting and do certain functions like toggling the power. This can be useful if the CPU have crashed or if the device is out of power.

Question: How do our eyes coordinate to look at the same point and produce one image?
Answer: There are tiny muscles in the eye socket to control your eyes movement. Due to evolution and natural select of ability to control where we look and how much control we have over fast-twitch muscle fibers, we are able to have our eyes turn to the same focal point and our brain merge the images together to produce our visual stimuli.

Question: Can you really snap a neck like they do in the films?
Answer: "asking for a friend."

Borrowing [this answer](_URL_0_), we learn:

"You have seven vertebrae in your neck (cervical vertabrae). 

Breathing is controlled by nerves that come out above the third, fourth, and fifth vertebrae. Severing or severely injuring the spinal cord at this level will paralyze the diaphragm and keep you from breathing.

It will also paralyze all other muscles below this level.

Either the carotid or vertebral arteries supplying blood to the brain may also be damaged by the shear forces of the neck being snapped, referred to as dissection. This would cause ischemia to the areas of the brain supplied by those arteries.

The most immediate cause of mortality in this situation would be respiratory arrest leading to cardiac arrest and death."

So, not exactly.

But you have to remember that, in movies, bad guys fall down dead instantly from long-range gunshots, but good guys can take repeated blows to the head and body with blunt, heavy instruments with no apparent ill-effects.

Question: Why are most holiday messages depersonalized?
Answer: It's so that the card won't be limited to being from a single person or a group. "Wishing you a happy holiday" can come from either your single brother or from both your grandparents. If it said "I wish you a happy holiday," groups and couples wouldn't buy that one, and vice-versa. 

So the company that makes the cards would have to make multiple versions of the card. That incurs additional expense-- and, simply due to chance and demographics, one version would outsell the others, so they would have to try and calculate how much that discrepancy would be, in order to not produce not enough or too many of each one.

Much easier to just make them more generic, so they make sense coming from either individuals or groups. The people giving the card can add personal messages that make any vagueness clear, anyway.

Question: Why do people use American Express credit cards?
Answer: American Express (AmEx) is a very Customer-Oriented card program.  The individuals that actually carry and use the card love it, generally speaking.  Many merchants, of course, hate it.  However, there are a few merchants that do like taking AmEx, even though the commission is higher.

AmEx is more like a "Club" card than a regular credit card.  On the opposite end of the scale, "Visa" is accepted by almost every business in the world -- even your Sister -- Ummm... that's a joke...  :)

AmEx is far better, in my experience, at rewarding brand loyalty.  My current AmEx has no fees, anywhere in the world -- no exchange fees, no ATM fees, no telephone call fees.  Every time I rent a car with the card, I'm fully covered, even to the point of having a car delivered directly to where I'm standing within 12 hours.  I had a strange charge on the card one time.  I called the AmEx service desk.  I told the rep that I had a strange charge on the card that I did not think was accurate, and I will explain it to you...   "SHHHH!  Mr. Speedy1!  You don't need to explain anything.  We don't want you to waste your own time.  The charge is coming off the card this very instant!  If the hotel doesn't like it, then they can go pound sand!"

I swear that I have never spent more than One Minute -- yes, 60 seconds -- on the phone with AmEx.

Question: How are autonomous vehicles supposed to function in large cities (assumed to be where they'll be used most) when any normal gps system can't even function correctly with all the interference from the skyscrapers?
Answer: They don't use JUST GPS.  They also use cameras, sensors, and built in maps (and math).  They are programmed to read signs, recognize pedestrians, keep an updated version of where they are on a map based on speed and direction, etc, etc...

Question: Why does inbreeding increase the likelihood of birth defects?
Answer: Everybody has bad genes in them - I remember a scientist quipping that there are enough genetic defects in the human genome to kill a person several times over. However, all humans get two sets of genes, one from each parent. As a result, many of the 'defects' you might have in your genes are simply overridden by the working copy you got from your other parent.

However, when you inbreed, you've got two people with very similar genetics, which means that its more likely that they'll both have identical copies of a defective gene (or gene set). That means the offspring is more likely to receive both copies of the defect from their parents, losing that protection that normally came from receiving two sets of chromosomes.

Do not that inbreeding doesn't increase rates of mutations, just the likelihood of genetic defects that are already existing in the parents being expressed fully.

Also, this question gets asked a lot. Use the search bar next time.

Question: Is at your own risk/we are not responsible for X Legal? If yes, to what degree?
Answer: I'm answering from a US perspective. This is a question of state law for the most part, so it varies by state. There are two things you're talking about: assumption of risk and waiver of liability.

Some quick legal background: if you don't have a contract with someone you can usually only sue them in tort. A tort is just a wrongful act that gives rise to civil liability on its own. In order to sue someone in tort they usually have to have acted negligently. Negligence is generally defined as not exercising the care that a reasonable person would under the same circumstances. What sort of care a reasonable person would exercise is usually a question that the jury decides.

An assumption of risk just indicates that the participant knew of the dangers of participating in the activity. The person signing it doesn’t waive their right to sue the other party if the other party acts negligently. It’s main purpose is to protect someone who is hosting something like a sports event from having a participant sue them later and say “they were negligent for not telling me that I might get tackled playing football.”

A waiver of liability says that a participant in an activity waives their right to sue someone. In most states the waiver of liability can be enforced to prevent a participant from suing the sponsor for any injury arising out of the sponsor’s negligence. It usually won’t be enforced if the sponsor was more than negligent, though (for example they were reckless, grossly negligent, or intentionally hurt someone). 

In some states like Virginia (last I checked) a court will not enforce any waivers of liability regarding personal injuries. You can still sign a waiver for injury to your property, though. However, Virginia is in the minority. Most states will enforce the waiver and won’t allow someone who signed a waiver to sue the protected party for its negligence.

Most waivers also only cover claims you could bring personally. If you die and your spouse sues for wrongful death then a waiver probably wouldn’t cover that because you can’t waive your spouse’s right to sue; your spouse would have to do that themselves. If the waiver language were broad and said something like “I waive everyone’s right to sue sponsor for any injuries I may suffer due to sponsor’s negligence” I’m not entirely sure what would happen if your spouse tried to sue. I imagine most courts would not enforce the waiver, but I have read any cases on that specific question.

Question: Where is all the water going?
Answer: The problem isn't that we're losing water, it's that we're just using clean freshwater faster than it's being replenished.

You remember hearing in the cowboy stories about how great the Rio Grande was? [This is what it looks like today](_URL_0_) after it's been dammed up for irrigation  &  drinking water up north.

Question: Is it possible for new major cities in first world countries to emerge and be as populous as the current ones?
Answer: Theoretically, cities build up for many reasons, but a key is economics and demographics.

There is a dual causality to these. Cities with good demographic conditions can create good economic opportunities, and vice versa.

Basically what you need is economic opportunity, or some major demographic shift.

For example, Fort McMurray (oil town in northern alberta) has increased its population by 10 times in the last 40 years or so. Because there are good jobs there.

Also (pre-collapse) many of florida's fastest growing cities were from Retired people moving in from the north.

Question: The recently annonced exotic hadrons made of 4 quarks.
Answer: {Quarks carry color, antiquarks anticolor. These colors can be red, green or blue, RGB, and ofcourse also antired, antiblue, antigreen.

Mesons are made of 2 quarks, a quark and its anti-quark, so that the resulting meson will be colorless (color + anticolor = colorless)

Baryons are made of 3 quarks. (3 different colors, like RGB or aRaGaB are together colorless again)

The exotic hadrons are made out of more than 3 quarks and that could be done like so:

4 quarks
R, aR, B, aB (red + antired + blue + antiblue = colorless)

5 quarks
RGB R aR (red green blue, red antired = colorless)

So yeah normally the 4quark hadrons aren't more stable than two mesons of 2 quarks. so we call it exotic    }-ish

Question: Why are Canadians considered to be one of the nicest people? Did anything special happened? Is Canada such a nice place to live in?
Answer: We help people all over the world. Many countries have been helped by our peacekeeping efforts. And we are generally polite. 

We even won many battles during the world wars and even hid the Dutch princesses in our country while the nazis invaded them. They send us 100,000 tulips every year in appreciation. 


_URL_0_

Question: How I can tell if it's safe to click on a link here in Reddit w/o someone doing it purposefully to get my IP
Answer: Guy threatens suicide, someone tries to help, guy is mad.  What?

Question: can anyone explain this magic trick
Answer: If you are asked to pick a number between 1 and 10, statistically most people pick the number 6.  Do this trick enough times with enough people and eventually you'll hit the jackpot.

Question: Why can't we send someone with a piece of paper and a pencil to map the Paris Catacombs?
Answer: Because he would end up dead in few minutes of course.

Seriously, there are  maps of Paris catacombs (official and not public or unofficial and public), they could be incomplete because things can change and (I guess) nobody cares about extra dead-ends.

Question: Why does our body seem like it's exhausted when we oversleep?
Answer: REM cycles. You oversleep, and your body's internal clock (regulates daily processes) gets screwed up so it rolls over to the next cycle and thinks you need to sleep.

We need sleep to give our bodies time to repair without need for action, so they can do it freely and easily. Studies have shown that we can also solve problems we were thinking up the day before during sleep. It's basically a system repair daily to make sure we're good to go for tomorrow.

Question: Why is building a fence/wall at the U.S. border considered foolish?
Answer: Because the border is fucking HUGE. Seriously the border of the US and Mexico is almost 2,000 miles; for a comparison the entire border of France is ~1800 miles. Also it is just a fence and people can easily jump it like they do now where fences are in place. 

And it will cost a shit ton, not only to build but to maintain.

Question: Does the FBI really have a magical Google like in Criminal Minds?
Answer: No, that's ust to make TV interesting. Dozens on people sitting quietly in cubicles for days or weeks searching for the info doesn't make good television.

Question: How does the numbering on interstate exits work?
Answer: Varies by state

In some states, the exit corresponds with what the mile marker is.  So if the exit is at mile marker 25, it's exit 25.  In case of multiple exits or new exits added at mile 25, then it's subdivided into exits 25a, 25b, 25c, etc.

In other states, the exits go in numerical order for the duration of the highway.  There's an ordering system which runs east-west or north-south from lowest to highest.  So the first exit is exit 1, second exit is exit 2, and so on til the end.  When new exits are added, that's where you see exit 2a, 2b, 2c, etc.

Question: Why do we see spots in our eyes after looking into a bright light?
Answer: It's called an [afterimage](_URL_0_). Your eyes get all tired out looking at the same thing for so long, so your receptors need to take a break. It's kind of like how your body gets used to the feeling of clothing on it all the time.

Question: Why do African Americans dominate athletics in the U.S.?
Answer: ...and, as a follow-up, why is hockey nearly devoid of blacks?

Question: Why is it so common for kids to dislike vegetables
Answer: Maybe it depends how it's prepared, I'm from europe and my entire family could make delicious vegetables, I always wondered why on earth in American tv shows/films/sitcoms kids hate vegetables 99% people I know love, exception is Brussels sprout, it's abomination and should be banned

Question: Why is smell the most nostalgic of our senses?
Answer: Basically because the area of the brain that processes smells is the one (of the ones that process senses) closer to the area were memories are stored.

Question: how do Wii remotes work? You point them at a small black bar and you can move the cursor anywhere on the screen.
Answer: Actually, you can replace the sensor bar with two candles.

The sensor bar is simply a device that emits infrared radiation, the Wii remote has an infrared sensor inside hs detects where the IR is coming from. Using that, it then uses Bluetooth to send that info to the Wii where it is displayed on the screen.

Candles emit enough IR as well.

Question: What happens when my eyes focus on my reflection in my phone screen then switch back to the screen?
Answer: The light field that exists in the three dimensional volume between your eyes and your screen contains many different patterns that correspond to different images at different locations. By pointing your eyes in a certain location and adjusting the shape of the natural lens on the front of your eye, you select out only certain light rays in this light field and bring them into focus to form an image on your retina. The light from your face is always reflecting off the screen and reaching your eyes. But if your lenses are shaped such that your focus is aimed at the screen, the light from your face reflecting off the screen is out of focus because it comes from a different depth. Even though the light from your face seems to be coming from the screen, it is actually coming effectively from behind the screen because it is a reflection of a light pattern created in front of the screen. Therefore the  light pattern from your face has a different effective distance then the light created by the screen. So you can focus on the distance corresponding to the location of the screen and only see the image created inside the screen, or you can focus farther away on the effective distance of your face and only see your face.

Question: How do computers built inside minecraft out of blocks work?
Answer: Computers are essentially huge state machines. If you can store some sort of state and describe how to transition from one to another, you have the fundamentals of a computer. Modern computers use microscopic transistors, but you can also represent state with all sorts of things such as Minecraft blocks that can toggle between two states. Then using the red stone as wiring to describe how to transition from one state to another, you have a state machine.

Question: Is it possible to thrive on a 100% fungus based diet?
Answer: Mushrooms are, indeed, awesome, but they don't have all the nutrients you need. They're very, very low in fat, for one (and yes, you do need some) and carbohydrates (and yes you need those too). 

Mushrooms can definitely be good for you (especially if you eat a good variety if interesting ones and not "plain" white mushrooms), but you can't live just on them, I'm afraid.

Question: The most recent physics noble prize
Answer: It won for discovering strong evidence of gravitational waves. Usually things that cause fluctuations in gravity move too slowly to tell, but large, violent events cause waves: fluctuations in the gravitational field. These were predicted a century ago but it took these guys and a clever experiment to finally observe one. 

Classic Newtonian understanding of gravity was that it would propagate infinitely: if you could instantly remove an object, the lack of gravity from it would be immediately felt. This experiment shows that it propagates at the speed of light, and radiates out like light or other forces.

Question: Why can't you use dialysis for threating blood poisioning og high amounts of carbonmonoxide?
Answer: Carbon monoxide is a lot smaller than the impurities that a dialysis machine can handle, smaller than your kidney can handle. The problem is that it is attached to the blood as oxygen should be, not merely in your blood stream as well.

Its not a bad idea, the scales just unfortunately don't work.

Question: What is the difference between Netflix's New Releases and Recently Added?
Answer: Recently Added means that the content has only been added to Netflix's library recently but may have aired/been released on other platforms at any time before. New Release means the content has only been released on other platforms recently.
For example, if Netflix added a tv show from the '60s yesterday, it would appear on Recently Added but if they added a season of a tv show that aired earlier this year, it would be new releases.

Question: What is the difference between sutures and stitches?
Answer: Same thing. Medical people usually call them sutures, and general public calls them stitches. The word "stitches" has a connotation of being on or of the skin, but same thing.

Question: From an evolutionary biology standpoint, why do we enjoy music at all, and "good music" in particular?
Answer: # pobody's standard evolution response

This comment is a RES macro. You are seeing this because your post or comment shows a misunderstanding or misrepresentation of one of the concepts of evolution described below.

* Evolution is a very simple process.
  1. A random mutation occurs.
  2. If the mutation is *beneficial* to survival and/or procreation and *hereditary*, organisms with the mutation have an advantage, and the mutation will show up more often in the descendants. If the mutation is *detrimental*, the offspring will have a harder time. If it's *neutral*, it may or may not continue to show up.
  3. There's no step 3.

* Evolution does not have a will, plan, design, or intent.
* Evolution has no impact on anything that doesn't deal with *survivability* or *reproduction*. Evolution will not make us into godlike athletes with six arms and the ability to see through steel because those things do not help with *survivability* or *reproduction*.
* Evolution does not produce perfect solutions. Maybe the right mutation simply hasn't happened. Maybe it wasn't beneficial enough. Maybe the only member of the species to have it was hit by a truck. It's too *random* to discuss "why hasn't X happened?" or "why is X not optimal?" In any case, it is an ongoing process.
* Evolutionary pressures are different in different environments. This is the whole point of speciation and what Darwin was going on about. Evolution causes multiple different answers to similar problems because (a) it's random and (b) environments are different.

Question: How do blind people know they are gay?
Answer: They know they are gay because they feel attracted to members of the same gender as themselves.

Question: If a cold is a viral infection, then why did paracetamol make my throat less sore?
Answer: Paracetamol doesn't do anything to any disease (except worsen liver diseases - check your doses kids). Basically all over the counter drugs are just there to mask symptoms. Sometimes treating symptoms is very important, like reducing a fever if it is too high, but they don't cure the illness.

Question: What determines what a planet or other celestial body is made of?
Answer: As I have come to understand it it's gravity.

more massive elements tend to wind up closer to a solar's center of mass ( AKA the sun/star ) in comparison to the lighter elements.

This all happens when the emerging solar system is still a cloud of particles. So once these particles get pulled together in to planets you'll get planets with more heavy elements in the planets closer to the star and the planets with lighter elements further out.

Question: Why does sweat smell different coming from the forehead instead of the underarms, or the underarms instead of the feet?
Answer: There are a few things to consider: where the sweat is coming from, how that part of the body is dressed, and how long since it was washed.  
Your feet are stuck inside shoes for most of the day so there's a bunch of bacteria that live there going to town on your delicious sweat, the funky "Foot smell" is a bi-product of their feast.  
Your armpit has a certain type of sweat gland called an Apocrine gland which is there because we're apes, that as well as regular, scentless sweat, also exude oily pheromones which can have a certain odour, and if you don't wash it there'll be a bacteria party in there too which causes B.O. These glands are also in a few other places, your groin, ear, eyelids (bizarrely enough), taint, nipples...  
The reason the rest of you doesn't sweat stinky sweat is because sweat from the rest of your body doesn't smell unless bacteria are given a chance to chow down on it.    
You can also sweat some odour from foods that you've eaten, onions and garlic break down into sulfur compounds in the body and can come out in sweat, just as they do in your breath.

Question: How/Why does cracking a glow stick "activate" it?
Answer: The ELI5 is this: A glowstick works by mixing two liquids which undergo a chemical reaction that produces light. The two parts are kept separate by a thin, fragile division inside the stick. Bending the flexible outer part of the stick cracks the inner division, allowing the two fluids to mix and start producing light.

Question: How is Noise Pollution dangerous?
Answer: Beyond the reality is that long term exposure to loud noises leads to deafness. There is a sense of social propriety as well. Just like you shouldn't walk down the street naked, and not let the smell of your shit disturb your housemates, you should show respect to others with regards to sound as well.

Question: How is the wind capable of making 20 m high waves?
Answer: The wind blows consistently over a very long distance of ocean.  It isn't one single strong gust which blows a wave up, but a sustained force that puts lots of energy into the wave.

Question: how come things that are blurry due to motion in rel life can look clear in mirrors?
Answer: Our eyes are simply better at tracking motion that is further away.

From the perspective of your brain, the fan in the mirror is twice as far away from you.

Question: neo-paganism
Answer: Neo-Paganism is the revival of old, traditional, pre-Christianity religions (mostly European, this doesn't include things like Native American religions). The religions go by different names: Wicca, Druidism, Heathenry, etc. Because there are so many different religions, and all of them believe in different gods/goddesses/spirits, it's difficult to describe them all.

The most popular Neo-Pagan religion is Wicca, which is based on old Celtic religions. There are different sects of Wicca (just like in Christianity): some worship a God and Goddess (some worship them as separate entities, some believe they are incarnations of one main God), some worship a "triple Goddess" (the "Maiden, Mother, and Crone"), some worship several different gods and goddesses (like the Greeks did), and some worship one goddess Diana. Some Wiccans believe in reincarnation, some believe in an afterlife. Some Wiccans practice alone, some Wiccans practice in groups (or covens). Magick (usually spelled with a K, to distinguish it from stage magic) is still very much alive in all Wiccan sects, however it's less a "love spell" sort of thing and more like the Earth's natural energy in their eyes. Wiccans believe that certain phases of the moon or certain times of the year invoke certain kinds of energies, and when celebrating holidays (the "Sabbats") or moon phases (the "Esbats"\*), they can use or channel those energies to help others or themselves (eg, use Spring's symbolic newfound life to do fertility rites, or use the Equinox to try and instill a balance between two fighting friends, or use the Moon's rays to guide the healing process, etc).

\***Edit:** I might be wrong on this. It appears the term "Esbat" is in debate amongst Wiccans. It's popularly used to refer to celebrations of the moon cycle, however it originally meant just a coven gathering.

Question: The plot of Animorphs
Answer: I gues I need to add this.
**Spoilers Spoilers Spoilers**
*Though honestly, it's been out for almost 20 years do we really need a spoiler warning?*


Alright, so last year I found a torrent and reread all of them so I have a pretty good feel for it. They are honestly pretty good once you get past the first 10 or so, but they are so short for an adult the first 10 books might as well be 10 chapters; not as arduous as it might seem. If I bolded something, it is the most important.    
    
  
  
  

There are two alien races at war, **The Andalites(good aliens) and the evil Yeerks (Bad aliens).** Andalites are the Vulcans/Protoss of the series. They have more advanced tech, have been around for a long time and are kind of douchey because  of this, but overall pretty good guys. **Specifically the Andalites have devolped a tech called the Escafil Device which gives a person the ability to absorb DNA by touch and then transform into that creature.** The Yeerks remind me of the Zerg/Tribbles. **The Yeerks are slugs that can crawl through a ear canal and take control of a host body completely.** The host is still alive, they just have no control of their body. The host can communicate with the Yeerk slug in control. The Yeerks reproduce very quickly, because of this and their lower technology they prefer subtle infiltration as opposed to ROFL-stomping a new planet. Also this a very spread out war, so if they committed a lot of resources to Earth, The Andalites would do the same. But by slowly infiltrating they gain hosts without opposition. There are trillions of Yeerks and in their natural state they swim around in a pool. Being in a body is a supreme luxury. Imagine what a blind, mute, and deaf person would do to gain access to sight, sound, and easy communication. Now imagine an entire race and what they might do to free themselves. **Earth is very valuable to them because there so many of us and the quality of life they can live through us.** **The weakness of the Yerks is that they have to leave their host and regenerate in a Yeerk  pool every 3 days.** The Yeerks have enslaved several species, the ones they use most are the Hork Bajir(think Klingon with razor sharp blades and points everywhere) and the Taxxons(giant centipede that can devour a horse in 5 minutes and is always hungry.) **The only Yeerk to ever gain a Andalite body(and the ability to morph) is Visser Three, and he is in charge of earth. Visser is a rank in Yeerk society, there are 46(??) out of trillions of Yeerks, so Visser = OG.**
    
 In the first book, Andalite Warrior Prince Elfangor is shot down into a construction site where 5 Tweens find him. He knows he is about to die and that the extent of the invasion is not know to the Andalite High Command. **He uses the Escafil Device to give the 5 Tweens the power to change into any animal and explains to  them the threat Earth faces from the Yeerks. He also warns them that they have a two hour limit in their transformed bodies, or they will be stuck forever.** They decide to use this power and do battle as Elfangor wished.  Each book is pretty formulaic. They find out the Yeerks can be hurt by destroying a facility/protecting a important person from infestation/gaining intel/freeing hosts, so they are forced to acquire a new animal DNA every book that will help them accomplish their goals. **They do a boss battle with Visser Three at the end of most books, where he morphs into some crazy alien species and they narrowly escape.**     
    
**One of the themes(but not foremost)  is about imagining what the different  'personalities' of animals are. Dolphins are incredibly fun to turn into, ant's are so terrifying that IIRC at one point Marco was willing to risk death or capture, rather than turn into one.**
    
Now many people reading this might be turned off "yea yea, a group of tweens does battle against a intergalactic empire by exploring their animal side and still have to do their homework, BORING!" But there is an adult level of  depth and emotion that goes on. **The focus is not on the Troubles of Tweens, but on the cause and effect of war on the human soul and on society.** Because one of the major appeals of this story is that it is character driven I will break the rest down by character.  
     
    
**Marco** Funny, witty, sarcastic and really smart he is the reluctant fighter. He finds out early on that the reason his mom abandoned him and his dad is because she was a controlled by a Yeerk. His sole motivations is freeing his mom and restarting the family he can barley remember. **Before this discovery he wanted to quit**. The rest of the group pressures him to continue fighting even when he doesn't think it will lead to his moms freedom, or it goes against every thought of self preservation. He would prefer to use his power to become famous rather than fighting. He is Jakes best friend.    
    
    
**Rachel** She is a Valley Girl turned Viking. Before this all she wanted to do was shop and talk about boys. Now all she wants to do is fight. **Her secret fear is that they would somehow win the war and she would not be able to transform into a bear and rip peoples faces off.** Jake is her cousin and Cassey is her BFF and Tobias is her love interest.
   
    
    
**Cassey** Her mom is a vet at the Zoo and her dad runs a wildlife clinic. She is the soure of info and access to the animals(and therefore there DNA). **She's the most compassionate and would give up the war in a heart beat if she could.** She even feels compassion for the Yeerks, and IIRC at one point meets members of a Yeerk underground movement who do not want to be en-slavers anymore. Rachel is her BFF and Jake is her love interest.     
     
     
     
 
**Tobias** He was a super loner without parents, constantly being shuttled between relatives.**He gets trapped as a Hawk early on and is forced to give up the human life.** He is a stereotypical beta male in that even though his situation is really fucked up, and he knows its fucked up, he tries to act like it's OooooKaay that he is trapped to the rest of the group. He likes Rachel, but the birdman stuff makes it super weird. Weirder even than Twilight and the vampire/werewolf love triangle
    
    
    
**Jake** He is the reluctant leader of the group. He reminds me of Ender because he has the tactical sense to win most engagements but the empathy to feel bad about the pain he causes.  He is also haunted by the fact that his brother is infested but he can't single him out for rescue because that might expose their identities, that Tobias becomes trapped as a Hawk in the first book, that his best friend Marco wants nothing to do with all this crazy shit (understandably) but he keeps pressuring him, that Rachel becomes a blood thirsty killer and that Cassey(the compassionate one) is forced to deal with all of this horrible stuff. IIRC at the end of the series he sends Rachel to her death to finish off Visser Three but he never forgives himself for it. **[This Is Jake] (_URL_0_)**    
    
    
     
**Ax** He is a Andalite and the younger brother of Eflangor and crashed landed in a seperate peice of this ship. They find him sometime around or before book ten. He is similar in age to the rest of the group. Because Andalites do not have mouths when he morphs into a human he is overpowered by the taste of doughnuts, popcorn, and candy. **He is also the  Mcgyuver of the group.**    "Oh, you need a Z-space transmitter? Give me a NES and some tucktape, in two hours you can be talking to someone on the other side of the universe, in real time AND in HD"       
     
    
"Ax how is that possible?"             
  

"Z-physics, duh"       
      
  
  

**David** Holy shit, how can I not not talk about David. David is a shit of a kid who somehow gets the morphing tech somewhere around book 20 in the series and almost exposed the animorphs to the Yeerks. He is essentially a poster child for that saying **Power corrupts, absolute power corrupts absolutely**. They decide they need to neutralize him so they do the most cold blooded thing possible. They trick him into becoming a rat and staying past two hours, thereby trapping him, and then carry him to a island filled with rats so that he could never do him no harm. This cause Jake and Cassey a lot of moral pain but Rachel and Marco don't really care and are glad the problem is solved. He eventually comes back but they beat him then to.  
    
    
**I love the David arch because it shows the grey area of the protagonists morality** And in fact I enjoyed this series for all the grey areas it displayed. **This series does not pander to YA or kids, but tries to ELI5 the horrors and tragedy of war, and the fucked up things the people going through a war feel and the fucked up decisions they are forced to make**    
   
   
Fake Ninja Edit: So I was saving this as a post every so often so I would not not lose the whole thing but thank you to people who upvoted early versions of it!    
    
Fake Ninja Edit Two: To those wondering why I did not mention the Crayak/Elliminist ark: It honestly does not matter to the over arching theme of these books (War sucks and negatively changes those who participate, regardless of reason for participating) but I can go over it in a edit if there is enough clamor for a explanation. Honestly there are better arks to be curious about. The stuff that goes between Jake and his infested brother; the book where Jakes family goes on vacation into the woods for four(?) days and Jake constantly wants to free him might be the best book in series. The android-dog ark is pretty interesting. The time near the end of the series when they decide to give the ability to disabled kids is heart breaking. The free Hork Bajir colony is intriguing. Rachel and her descent into becoming Xena Warrior princess, plus her weird relationship with Tobias. Tobias's own struggle adapting to being a bird. How disturbed Cassey becomes because of the things they are forced to do in the name of war and how that affects her feelings for Jake.    
    
Also I did not cover the end, but I can  if needed.

Question: "Click Bait" sites?
Answer: They're obnoxious because their goal is to get as many eyes on their advertisements as possible. They write headlines that make you curious and them force you to look at as many pages as possible to drive up their advertising revenue - each new page serves up a new ad that they get paid for. Because they make money while being cheap and easy to run, lots of companies are copying the business model.

Question: Why are 3d models used for games, in a T-Pose when not in use or before an animation ?
Answer: It's the best way to model or sculpt it. it's also more or less a standard, so you can easily take a skeleton from another model and place it on your working model. It allows for easier deformation modelling too. You can also model a character with their arms down, but then when you want to animate those arms upwards the deformation becomes a lot harder to get right.

Question: Why do we read Shakespeare? Isn't the point of a theatrical play to watch it?
Answer: The reason behind Shakespeare being in the Curriculum is one that is quite anti-climactic. The reason we study Shakespeare is because he was not only a great Playwright, but a wordsmith and a lyrical genius. [He invented over 1700 words](_URL_0_).

Not only that but the way he wrote was genius, because theatre in the 17th Century was very different, They had no use of lights, sound effects, props, backdrops. The reason Shakespeare work is so Long is because most of it is descriptive.  Instead of seeing a scene that has trees for a backdrop, and Leafy Gobos while being lit in a green tint, he had to describe the surroundings, and he had to make that as captivating as possible, he couldn't just blankly state "She was beautiful" The scope of that is so broad, as opposed to saying "She is more bright than fire, more beautiful than a jewel, the world does not deserve this woman, she is making me question whether I had actually fallen in love before now". Even his original actors would find surprises in the text due to them not knowing the whole script, but this is due to the fact that they had no way of mass printing and it would have taken one man ages to hand write multiple copies of the scripts.

As well as this, his structure is phenomenal, the way his stories unfold are brilliant in the way that it's unlikely enough to be entertainment, but plausible enough to be relatable. Take for example Macbeth: His paranoia and hunger for power increases and an alarming rate and most of the characters give the lead couple the benefit of the doubt extremely generously, but where it all comes from is completely understandable, think about all great men with a great woman behind them. On top of this, its the way he wrote lines, and dialogue, Things like Iambic pentameter (Having 10 syllables per line, and stressing all the even numbered ones. During a Iambic Pentameter speech, if one line has less than 10 Syllables, there should be a dramatic break.) and the way that some characters, couples mostly, conjoin their lines to make 10 syllables.

Which meads me onto "But you can just get this from watching the play, right? If the actors are good" But when:-

Producers choose to do a modern translation or reduced text production

Directors have different intent, adaptions or dramatic choices

Actors have varied understandings or implications on lines

can result in a loss in translation. This is a very common thing to happen because Shakespeare's work is so adaptable to modern times and relevant Social/Political/Economical issues. It's well worth trying to see adaptions, which should be easy, Shakespeare's work is the most performed in the world. (In fact it is generally believed that his work is being performed every day somewhere in the world, most likely in more than one place) But the best option to be able to fully appreciate everything he did in writing, you have to read he work, to fully be able to analyse it. Of course, your analysis may be completely different to someone else's, which then will spark a debate and get people talking, which may make you want to go back to the text and read it again to find new things, and so on and so forth. 

**TL:DR:** The man's writing is so complex and layered, as well as the factor that modern performances have the license to change and adapt his work so much, that a lot of beautiful, lyrical and poetic writing gets lost.

*Studied Theatre for 7 years. BA(Hons) Drama. Studying for an MA in Music Theatre. Wrote a Dissertation on the Relevance of Shakespeare in Modern Culture.*

Question: How did it come to be that baseball would be played during the spring and summer, football during the fall, and basketball and hockey during the winter?
Answer: * Baseball - outdoor sport, needs good, dry weather
* Football - originally a collegiate sport, played during the fall semester
* Basketball - developed as an indoor sport to be played when the weather was bad
* Hockey - outdoor sport that required frozen surfaces

Question: What is stopping 911 dispatch centers from adopting texting capabilities?
Answer: Phone calls are live data stream.   Its transferred in real time.   Text messages are not. They're queued and sent whenever the network wants..  When the network is busy, like after a disaster, text msgs are delayed  minutes or hours later

Question: Why all the hate for Joss Whedon's handling of Black Widow in Avengers: Age of Ultron?
Answer: She got captured and put in a cage by a male villain. Partly because ScarJo got pregnant during filming and they had to write her out of some action scenes, but when the only woman on the team is the one who gets kidnapped and needs a man to rescue her, it seems off. That, combined with the addition of a romantic subplot annoyed people who liked that for once, a female lead in a film didn't need a love story to be cool.
 
Oh, and the line about being sterilized got interpreted by some fans to mean "Because I can't have kids, I am a monster." Instead of as "I can't have kids, because of the horrible things they did to me, which resulted in my being a monster." Which offended women who thought this meant Whedon was treating women as baby-factories who have no worth unless they are pumping out children.

So this, combined with the internet amplifying people's anger and rage, lead to so many angry tweets.

Question: How is Russia able to afford its current modernization program?
Answer: The available resource right in mainland and doesnt have to import, Russia with its vast land is very resource rich, so it's more cost-effective to self supplying some of the industries, making the product costs lower comparing to other countries. Furthermore, the cost living in Russia is lower than other western countries, although their social welfare isnt as good, but still acceptable in their own standard. And finally, being a somewhat "dictator ship", they can easily cut the money at some departments and transfer it to their higher priority one. It's the same with NKorea, where 60% people in starving thread, and still can launch rocket, although quality is questionable. Russia is way more bigger than NK, and has more experience in dealing with trouble from WW2. In motherland everything can happen.

Question: Why are people of Nordic origin taller than most humans?
Answer: Somebody has to be the tallest. That area of the world happened to get mutation for height.

Question: If cellphones are replacing landlines, why aren't there versions of white pages for cellphones? How are landlines any different?
Answer: Problem Is there are multiple cell phone companies, so if each had their own book it would be incomplete and inconvenient to have to look through 5 books to find a person. Land lines used to be one company in an area generally. It was a weird deal because they were a company, but a utility and basically a monopoly. Even after it was deregulated it still stayed much the same.

And even if someone does somehow arrange to get one combined  cell list, it's still going to be very incomplete because people could choose to be unlisted and a large percentage would. I know I would.

Question: What causes certain wines to make your tongue feel "dry" after taking a drink?
Answer: Chemical compounds called tannins in the wine are the culprits. They're found in most plants and are also what turn tea brown.

Question: Is "dream Deja Vu" a thing?
Answer: One of the prevailing theories on Déjà Vu is that sometimes our wires get crossed (metaphorically) and the sensory input goes through the region of our brains for memory formation and recall before going to conscious thought. I mind tags information based off of where it came from, so it sees that some of the stimuli came from our senses, but the similar stimuli came from our memory. It makes us feel like we've seen this exact before, when it's all coming from the same input.

Question: what is the theory behind juries? Why can't judges just make all the decisions?
Answer: The idea behind juries is that you don't want to turn judges into an elite ruling class that has total power over people.  That kind of power is easy to abuse.

Plus, laws are supposed to be a reflection of society itself determining what rules it wants to follow, so having "society itself", in the form of a jury of the accused's peers, determine whether or not the law was broken seems only fitting.

Question: Why did the Earth form with just a single continent?
Answer: It didn't.... I'm guessing that you're referring to Pangaea which is usually the starting point when teaching about Continental Drift, however the continents were separate before they formed the supercontinent Pangaea. 

In fact, Pangaea is actually thought to have been the seventh or eighth [supercontinent](_URL_0_).

Question: How is being a Redditor different or any more 'special' (or less so?) than regularly browsing any other forum? (genuine question, I'm not trying to be a bitch)
Answer: It really doesn't make you any more special than someone else on another forum. Reddit has its bad subs and their users, just like 4chan has its bad boards and their users. 

I suppose reddit has a more progressive, liberal stance towards things with a *generally* friendly and welcome user base, which may give it a more favorable reputation. 

Again, being a redditor doesn't give you any sort of special status - subscribing is free!

Question: How is it possible to know precise details about planets that are many lightyears away, but not to know the exact size of pluto?
Answer: One is a precise measurement based on brand new data on an object that is almost perfectly dark and is extremely small. 

The other is a broad, sweeping guess based on a humongous object that is glowing almost as bright as the sun. 

I don't see the problem here.

Question: What exactly is zero point energy
Answer: Let's say that you have a ball and it behaves like a particle. From physics, we know that the total energy of the ball is the sum of the kinetic energy and its potential energy (the energy trapped as matter.) When the ball isn't moving, it has a minute amount of KE even though it should not have *any* kinetic energy at all. The Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle forces it to have a minimum "inherent" KE that allows the uncertainty principle to exist.

Zero point energy (ZPE) is this "inherent" minimal KE, otherwise known as the energy of the ground state. Because of quantum fluctuations due to the HUP, it is impossible for a particle to have no KE at all. Ergo, it is impossible to thermodynamically induce absolute zero. Technically, I shouldn't even be comparing ZPE to KE because it is possible to have no KE and still have ZPE. But for the purposes of this explanation, I will make this mistake. Thus, the total energy of a particle is its KE + PE + ZPE.

Question: How do prisoner exchanges during war actually work?
Answer: The reasoning for doing a POW swap are worked out in advance. Generally the prisoners are walked to the border and then let loose to walk to the other side. Or they are moved to a mutually agreed location and then let go. It all kinda depends on who they are and the parties. Some times there isn't one. In WW2 in japan the japs had treated their POWs so bad that once it was announced that the japs had surrendered the guards at the POW camps just left and let the POWs on their own. 

_URL_0_
_URL_1_

Question: Why do books get banned, and who decides which books to ban.
Answer: Most books don't really get banned, when you hear librarians or authors talking about their banned book, what that means in is that a specific school or library has chosen to not feature or include that book in their curriculum or their reserves. However the US government both at the state and local level has to power to ban a small group of books that typically infringe on existing laws or cultural norms. 

1. Books may and have been banned for providing high detail on the construction and implementation of homemade weapons. I don't want to link the book here, but a famous such handbook is still illegal to own in some states as it provided detailed instruction on how to build pipe bombs and the pressure cooker weapon used in Boston. 

2. Books may also be banned for sexual obscenity. This is a changing field of law, but in 1873 the Comstock Act made the transfer of "obscene" material illegal. This banned a large swath of literature in the 19th century that would not be able legally to be sold until the 1950s. Even today certain graphic material such as pornography can be regulated and banned through these obscenity laws.

3. Books may be banned for violating a specific contract made with the US government. This happened recently when a member of the SEAL team that killed Bin Laden attempted to publish a memoir in which he did not have full clearence to disclose. If one signs a non-disclosure agreement, or has some sort of top-secret legal requirements the government just as any contract signatory has the ability to enforce a banning or censoring.

All this being said very few books are actually banned in a legal sense today in the US. But these three generalized considerations still limit books and other media in other ways, such as providing ratings for movies, or preventing children from witnessing them and so still inform modern culture.

TLDR: banned by law for inducing violence, sex crimes, or violating law/contract.

Question: How (or why) is the US Federal Reserve not an actual part of the government?
Answer: The Federal Reserve is essentially a government agency that is operated privately.  It was created by the government, it's leaders are appointed by the government, but it is independent.  This is often referred to as being "independent within the government."  

By making it independent and quasi-private, the Federal Reserve can run monetary policy more efficiently, without every single thing being politicized and subject to constant interference and squabbling from politicians.  This isn't to say that there's no oversight, just that it's less silly.

Question: Why hats used to be so popular in the 1920's and 30's
Answer: Hats have been popular articles of men's attire from ancient times until 1960.  Most men throughout history wore a cap or hat whenever they went outside.

In 1960, President-Elect Kennedy attended his inaguration hatless and thereafter fashion changed rapidly to dispense with headgear except as environmental conditions required.

From about 1920 to 1960 men found it increasingly hard to use hats as an article of fashion due to the headroom in cars.  As the headroom got smaller, hats got harder to wear.  First the large tophat style hats vanished, then even smaller fedoras.  About the only place men still feel comfortable wearing headgear in transport is in the cab of large trucks.

Question: why Verizon workers are going on strike?
Answer: The Verizon employees who are on strike have not had a contract since August of 2015. Negotiations with the company have not produced the results they felt were appropriate and they have elected to strike based on that.

Some of the issues they have raised are wages, pension freezes, Verizon working to make it easier to dismiss staff and move jobs overseas, among other things.

Question: Why do omelets and scrambled eggs taste differently even though I put the same ingredients into them?
Answer: First, texture has a lot to do with food. The sensations of chewing, moving food around in your mouth, and taking a bite-sized solid piece of omelet versus a fluffy bit of scrambled egg with a lot of air in it will add to a difference in flavor.

Next, your omelet usually has a big chunk of "other stuff" in its middle whereas the scrambled egg approach would have little bits of other things all throughout them (assuming you are making them with more than just cheese). This changes the way those additional bits cook and exchange tastes with each other, changes their moisture content, and changes the distribution of flavours that you get in each mouthful.

Finally, scrambled eggs are mixed around and they're cooked very uniformly without a "browned" exterior, but omelets usually have a little more deep-cooking in their exterior surface, and its different more-burned chemicals can result in a different flavor profile.

Question: Why aren't independent votes counted in the presidential primary?
Answer: Right now the parties are voting to pick who they want to run for president, as private entities. They may want to exclude non-party members, for instance to avoid letting 'guerilla voters' bump up a cataclysmically bad candidate so that the party will nominate him/her, and then lose in the general election.

You aren't currently voting *for president.* When that time comes, you can vote for whoever you'd like.

Question: Why does cereal need to be in a bag in a box when dry pasta doesn’t need a bag before being put into a box?
Answer: We want cereal to stay crisp, because we don't intend to cook it before eating it. And because it has loads of rough surface area, it absorbs humidity fast.

Question: Can Chinese writing be "sounded out?" How would someone read a word that they've never seen before.
Answer: No, mandarin and cantonese are not phonetic. If you can't figure out the word, you have to look it up or use context.

Question: Why do charities build new homes for the homeless/under-privileged when we already have a ridiculous amount of vacant homes in the US that could be fixed/don't need fixing?
Answer: You can't really ask the government to just let you take existing but currently uninhabited homes like that, it'd basically amount to stealing from the owner.

Some places have laws about letting property be considered properly 'abandoned' in which case any supposed owner that fails to maintain the property can lose it to someone that does, but that's not universal or necessarily easy.

Ignoring that, though, where are these empty houses? A lot of them are somewhere pretty useless for a homeless person. Having a home doesn't mean much if you can't get a job in the area to hold down the home. Just giving homes to homeless people and calling it a day won't really work - you have to address the fact that most homeless people are facing issues of which being homeless is more of a symptom than a direct problem. Mental health issues, disability, inability to get work, etc.

Question: Why do relatively small similarities between songs or books result in lawsuits worth millions, but knock-off food items can have identical ingredients, similar packaging, and even reference the name brand being ripped off with "compare to  < brand name > "?
Answer: Songs are protected by copyright which protects the song from people copying it.  Food on the other hand is a product that is composed of ingredients that are most likely not under patent protection.  Also many of the generic brands you mention are actually made by the same company they are trying to imitate.  The company just makes a lesser quality version of the name brand for stores to sell as a cheaper version.

Question: How is the speed of the ball measured immediately in sports like cricket?
Answer: They use a radar gun, just like (well, in principle) the ones police use. They use the doppler effect to measure speed of the ball. You can buy one at many sporting goods stores.

Question: In today’s society, why is adopting a child not more encouraged than having your own and adding to an already over-populated planet?
Answer: Biological drive to reproduce, and societal drive to pass on a family legacy. It's basically that simple.

Question: What does the "real" in real estate mean?
Answer: It means "actual" in the sense that the thing is a permanent part of the world, as opposed to "personal estate" or "personal property" which comes an goes.

_URL_0_

Yes that's not how we use the word "real" usually today, but it was a long time ago.

Question: What causes me to have extremely poor facial recognition skills?
Answer: You could have some degree of face blindness, _URL_0_

Which is an issue remembering people by their faces.  In person, other cues like their voice, stride, context of meeting, and personality will clue you in, but there is no such benefit from photos.

Question: Tides...
Answer: I think the best way to describe tides is simply with a visual...
[_URL_0_](_URL_0_)

Question: Why is anal sex called anal sex and not rectal sex? (NSFW)
Answer: For the same reason oral sex is not called throat sex.

Question: Why don't babies have morning breath?
Answer: I'm guessing it has to do with teeth. Before babies have teeth, there's less surface area for bad breath causing bacteria to cling to, hence no morning breath. Being on a liquid diet probably has something to do with it too.

Question: Whole grain foods
Answer: Basically, grain foods are made from cereals, like wheats. The part we eat is the ground up seeds.

Refined grains have the bran and germ removed from it. These are extra parts of the seed that protect it and allow it to grow into a new plant. The only part left is called the 'endosperm' -- it's just the simple carbs put there by the wheat plant to help the seed grow. It's basically the food the seed will later use to germinate.

"Whole grain" hasn't been refined. Everything gets ground up together. That's what makes it darker.

The reason whole grain is beneficial is that the refinement process removes fiber and nutrients from the grain. This in turn leads to the refined grain being closer to just empty calories and also leads to it absorbing much more quickly.

Quick absorption in this case is unfortunate. It means the body gets shocked with sugars (which the refined wheat is mostly turned into in the body) more quickly. In other words, it has a higher glycemic index.

Question: UPC/Bar Codes
Answer: Like your five, sans wiki: 

**The UPC**: Your basic UPC Bar Code is literally a *code* using vertical lines that represent numbers, letters, etc., the scanner scans horizontally across them in the same way that your eyes read the words on a page, only much, much faster; because of this, the bar code itself can be any height, but they like to make them nice and big to make them scan easier.

(Bonus, like you're 15: it works much in the same way that Morse Code works, only instead of long/short it's a combination of thick/thin/white/black)

**The Scanner**: The codes work because there are "start" and an "end" codes (and sometimes a "middle" as well) that tells it which way to read -- this means they work even if they're upside down (because the laser goes back and forth, it reads right-to-left and left-to-right, and it needs to know where to start).

Most scanners just have a back-and-forth laser, which means you have to orient either the item or the scanner to match (which is why you see people with the hand-held scanners turning every which way, trying to get it to scan) -- newer ones have a more complex pattern that scans at various angles, to ensure that no matter how it's placed in front of the laser, it'll scan it correctly across the bars.

Question: Why does it hurt so much to get kicked in the balls?
Answer: Evolutionarily, our whole purpose in life is to live long enough to raise children, our genes don’t really care what happens after that. Our entire pain/reward system has been tweaked to this purpose. You ate? Good job, here is some dopamine. You skinned your knee? Bad job, that could get infected and kill you have some pain. 


Based on this logic, pretty much the worst thing you could do is damage your ability to reproduce, so your balls are absolutely packed with nerve endings that will send intense pain signals to your brain if they sense injury, because losing your reproductive ability is equally as bad as death.

Question: What happens to medicines beyond their expiry date that they turn unsafe for consumption?
Answer: Most everything has chemical reactions as they age. Some medications get weaker so the medicine simply stops working correctly. Some become more powerful so you risk overdose. And some completely change and can either lose their effect or become toxic.

Question: How exactly is a file deleted from your computer?
Answer: Pretend you have a room full of chalk boards, and you use the chalk boards to keep track of all your important info. You have so many chalk boards that you have a hard time keeping track of them all, and you keep forgetting which chalk board has your shopping list, and which chalk board has your tax records.

To keep track of your chalk boards, you number them, 1, 2, 3, etc. You also decide to use chalkboard 1 to keep track of what is written on the other chalk boards. Now, when you want to find your shopping list, you check chalk board 1, and it tells you that your shopping list is on board 35.

Now that you have gone shopping, you no longer need your shopping list, so you can delete it. You could go all the way back to board 35 and erase it, but that chalk board is all the way over there, like tens of feet away. That is far, and you are lazy. Easier to  just cross out the line on board 1 that says where your shopping list is. Now, if you need to find a board to write on, you can look at board 1, and find a board that has information you no longer need. For example, the line for board 35 is crossed out, which means you can go there and overwrite whatever is there.

Moving a file to the recycling bin is like crossing out a line on board 1. You can see what is/"was" written there, but it is marked as trash or recycling by being crossed out. Emptying the recycling is just erasing the crossed out lines.

Question: how are people in many societies expected to find love and marry by their early 20s?
Answer: Basically, when everyone is aware they must be married by 21, people compromise and settle quickly. Some of the prettiest or most socially dominant people in highschool (or equivalent age) would have first pick, then their friends would feel the need to catch up, and so on, until very nearly everyone had someone just because it's not fashionable not to. 

Imagine if you could only ever sleep with your highschool prom date ever again, and if you didn't have one, that was it, you would have to go become a monk. You would imagine that a lot of people would make do with a decent prom date, and that sometimes people would marry only out of fear of being alone.

Question: Why is Ellen Pao hated?
Answer: Since the subreddit ban wave (Fatpeople hate ect.) reddit decided she was satan, and never really came back from that. 

Some people believe she's commercializing reddit and steering it away from its roots. 

Personally I don't think we have the information to read her character one way or the other.

Question: Grafite and diamond are made of the same thing. Why one is transparent and other not?
Answer: In a diamond, the carbon atoms are all neatly lined up in a crystaline structure.  Photons entering the lattice work from the right angles will pass right through it virtually unimpeded.

In graphite and other forms of carbon, the lattice work isn't there, and the atoms are in what you'd call a pile.  So photons encounter resistance no matter where they hit it.

Question: How can you identify musical meter?
Answer: Other repetitive patterns, such as loudness of notes, in pop music, bass and snare drum hits are closely synced to the meter.   Listen for arpeggios on bass, guitars or pianos that are multiples of the meter.  If music is less rhythmic, like just long slow legato notes on violins or synth pads, it will be harder to recognize.  There is a less emphasized "downbeat" for you to find

Question: How do bees make such perfect hexagons?
Answer: That is just what happens when you cram a bunch of circles together. Bees make circular/cylindrical containers for their honey and eggs, since those have the most volume to wall material ratio.

When these are all smushed together you get hexagons.

Question: Why have I never heard of someone getting heart cancer?
Answer: It's just a very, very rare form of cancer so it's not heavily talked about. _URL_0_

Apparently the drummer of Kiss died from it, though.

Question: Where does the energy go to when you have a fully charged device and it is still plugged into the wall?
Answer: This is how I've been told to think about it: it's not that the power plug is PUSHING power out to the device, it's that the device battery is PULLING power from the plug.  When the battery is 'full', it stops PULLING thereby eliminating any further flow of electrons.

Can anyone confirm?

Question: What causes a mob mentality?
Answer: It is herd mentality. I nature it goes like "everyone else is terrified and running away so I should also be terrified and running away". There for in an angry mob everyone around you is angry, shouting and swearing ect so subconsciously you also feel you should be doing just this. Such mentality, as you called it, causes angry crowds to do things that individuals wouldn't and riots emerge.

Question: Why Mexico did not become a powerful nation just like Canada or the US?
Answer: As a Canadian, I think the word you're looking for is *affluent,* not powerful.

Question: Why can't we freeze food twice?
Answer: This is a myth. You can freeze and re-freeze food as much as you'd like, because the freezing process kills bacteria. The optimum temperature for bacterial growth is close to body temperature or higher for many bacteria (40° F and 140° F). This is the "danger zone".

What you don't want to do is refrigerate food over and over again. Or freeze a giant meal, reheat the whole damn thing and let it sit out on the counter for a while, then refreeze the whole damn thing again. If you take a meal out of the refrigerator, heat it a little, then put it back in the refrigerator, you're bringing the temperature up into the "danger zone". If you do this over and over again, you allow the bugs to multiply a lot.

Freezing rapidly can kill these bacteria. But you also have the risk of the toxins from the bacteria in your food (which will not be removed via freezing).

Check out the [USDA's page regarding leftovers](_URL_0_) before Republicans remove it from the website.

The best thing you can do is take leftovers as soon as you eat the food and separate them into smaller quantities for freezing. Then only bring out one portion at a time, heat it and eat all of it. Putting it back and forth into the fridge can be dangerous.

Question: How do some foods make you gassy? Where is the gas coming from?
Answer: Some types of sugar consist of a bunch of different sugar molecules chained together. For example, starch consists of long chains of glucose molecules, and has to be split into single glucose molecules by an enzyme. However, different types of sugar require different enzymes for this job, for example lactose (milk sugar) requires an enzyme called lactase, which some people don't have. For some types of sugar however, nobody has the required enzymes. 

These types of sugar can however be broken down by bacteria in the guts, which use it as an energy source. In doing so, they produce gases.

Question: The Duluth Model in relation or application to domestic violence
Answer: Basically the Deluth model states that if a domestic violence call occurs then the man gets arrested to ensure safety for the woman. This generally occurs irrespective of who called the police or what the story is when the police get there.

The men's lib movement sees this as a very bad thing and in areas where it occurs as described they are correct. However, like most other claims of discrimination in the modern west its impact is overstated in my opinion. It's kind of like quicksand, you probably grew up thinking quicksand was some kind of super death trap yet the mundane reality is that it has very little effect on your life unless you put yourself in specific circumstances for it to become a problem.

Question: What do the reduced salt signs on highways and roads mean?
Answer: Highways are sprayed with a salt solution in winter to prevent the formation of ice.  Certain sections of highway are near water supplies and protected wilderness areas however.  These sections are salted less in order not to contaminate the surrounding ecosystems.

They put the signs up to warn you that because there's less salt, there will likely be more ice.

Question: How did Lou reed's Liver fail on him caused by years of drug use and drinking if he has been sober for many years already?
Answer: I am, of course, not Lou Reed's doctor but I'd imagine it's because livers, although very miraculous in their regenerative capabilities in some ways, aren't perfect.

As we age our organs, and all of us really, degrades. If it didn't we'd never get old. It's easily possible that he damaged it to a certain threshold way back when, and this threshold was above the functional level, but close to disaster.

Then he aged a bit and the damage from years ago caught up with him.

Question: solving differential equations
Answer: This is going to be a little hand-wavey.

A differential equation describes how something changes very little when something else also changes very little. For example, speed describes how position changes, and acceleration describes how speed changes. The relationships between speed and position, and acceleration and speed, are called differential equations.

Differential equations describe almost everything in the universe. That's why it's so important to solve them.

For example, I know exactly how my speed makes my position change. How can I determine my position a long time into the future? To do that, I need to solve a differential equation.

And if I know exactly how acceleration changes my speed, I can solve a differential equation to figure out my speed in the future.

The next step: If I know how acceleration changes speed, and how speed changes position, I can also figure out how acceleration changes position. That's another differential equation.

When you take a differential equation, which only describes how something changes very little very close, and use it to predict BIG changes FAR away, that's called ***solving*** a differential equation.

Unfortunately, solving differential equations turns out to be very difficult indeed.

Edit: I'm assuming a five year old would want to learn about differential equations and what it *means* to solve them, not *how* to solve them. If the latter, you're in the wrong subreddit.

Question: Why does travel in a bus/train make me feel tired?
Answer: I believe it's from the constant adjustments your body has to make from being bumped around. You never get the opportunity to sit still like you would on a couch.

Question: If women's cycles sync up when they spend some time together, wouldn't every women be theoretically on the same monthly cycle?
Answer: I think they would have to spend a lot more time together than you imagine, like maybe live together and spend a lot of time outside work/college with each other also.

Question: Why can't they make space elevators with propellers on them to reduce tension forces?
Answer: That would only work in the atmosphere, where the propellers have something to push: air.  But the cable will experience the same amount of tension above the atmosphere, where there is no air for the propellers to push.  The only real solution is to find a way to manufacture, in large quantity at reasonable cost, a material with the necessary tensile strength.

Question: Why does the visible light spectrum appear cyclic to the human eye if the spectrum is based on specific linear wavelengths of light?
Answer: It doesn't appear cyclic to the human eye.  It appears cyclic to the human *brain*.  

Our eyes can detect 3 "regions" of color: red, green, and blue.  If we detect some combinations of those, we typically perceive that as an "in-between" color.  For example, orange light stimulates both the red and green sensing cells in our eyes.  So stimulating the red and green cells is what we perceive as "orange".  And, interestingly, if we just use red and green light (no orange light), we can stimulate those cells exactly the same as orange light, and so we still see orange.  In fact, that's the basis for how computer and phone displays work:  They only emit red, green, and blue light, and our brains perceive combinations of those as other colors.

But here comes the strangeness!  What happens when you stimulate the red and blue cells in the eye with red and blue light?  Well, your first guess is that we should perceive the color that is "in between" red and blue on the spectrum.  But that color is green, and we're specifically *not* stimulating the green-detecting cells in our eyes.  However, your brain isn't really capable of seeing it as two different colors (red and blue) simultaneously, so it invents a new color!  Purple!

That's right, purple, the color that allows our sense of the spectrum to be cyclical, *isn't a real color*.  There is no such thing as a purple photon of light.  Purple can *only* be perceived by the human brain as a side effect of the limitations of our visual system.

Question: How did gold, silver, and bronze specifically become the iconic symbols of 1st, 2nd, and 3rd in competitions.
Answer: Being both common and given value.

Bronze is a mix of copper and... On mobile, but I want to say iron. Looks nice, but isnt all that valuable.

Silver is more valuable, but tarnishes.

Gold is a symbol of wealth and purity, and is the most valuable of the three.

Other materials are not as common, harder to work with, or either too valuable to give up, or too cheap to mean anything.

Question: Why does clips of American news seem such poor quality on UK TV?
Answer: The UK and the US have two different systems for broadcast TV signals.  The US uses a system called NTSC, and the UK uses a system called PAL.

PAL is slightly better than NTSC to start with, but converting an NTSC signal to PAL degrades it even further.

All the major US networks now broadcast an HDTV signal as well.  That should be directly compatible with an HDTV broadcast in the UK and the quality should be indistinguishable.  But I have no idea what the agreements are between the US news outlets and the British news outlets to exchange video clips so it may be that whatever source you're using for news is limited to NTSC clips.

Question: How is topsoil formed and why does it take so long?
Answer: Soil is formed as leaves and stuff fall, also ferns, but once they fall, detritivores will break down material. Eventually it lets it’s nutrients go down to lower levels of soil(They have 4 horizons; O, A, B, C.) O is the organic matter, C is bedrock IIRC.
So first off, how many leaves do you think fall in a square foot of land at any given year, because that can be a major limiting factor. Also Temperature and Humidity also play a role, higher temperature gives more energy and water helps to break down and leech nutrients.
Soil scientists will dig holes to look at the layers and they can also give a good description of the land. For the USA you can google, web soil survey, and look for a parcel of land that you are interested in and get a report about the predicted soils in your area(This is modeled, so always be sure to verify.)
Because soil takes so long to form some states like Idaho have listed it as a public resource, so you can’t do damage to it, in a forestry setting, you can’t run a machine too much on it. Washington kinda protects it, but more on the side, Washington has protections for the fish, which in turn protects the streams with a forested buffer, like 150-200’ wide from the stream bank, and also you can’t let too much sediment get into the stream from logging roads or erosion up stream. 
The constitution gave states the right to manage their lands, other than national lands, so they have different rules between each state, Washington has one of the bigger rule books.

Question: Why can't we flush toilets with saltwater?
Answer: That would necessitate two different water sources coming to your house and an additional plumbing system to keep your toilet separate from your sinks, showers, etc.

Question: Why does GPU drivers update, if the GPU is the same? What will that hcange?
Answer: When you write software you use abstract terms.  For a simplified example, you might say something like "Show this model on the screen".  You do this through a graphics library like DirectX or OpenGL, or through some engine that converts it into a language like that.

In the long past, there was no graphics libraries, and there were no drivers from the manufacturers.  The programmers would have to know exactly what commands to send to every card.  Back then there were only a few models of popular video cards so this was something that could be done.  But as there started to be more models of video cards it started to be too hard to do well.  So maybe you need to load the shape of the model into the card in a very different way for one card than another.

Out of this, OpenGL and eventually Direct3d became a thing.  The cards were designed to accept more general terms like "load this model".  The thing is the cards had to have some way of accepting these commands, and sometimes new cards with new features would come out and need to accept new features.  You couldn't rewrite DirectX or OpenGL every time you wanted to use one of these features, and you don't know on the card immediately what's the best way to do something. 

So a driver is another translation layer.  The graphics library sends an instruction to the driver.  The driver decides what the best way to convert that instruction into commands to send to the card is.  When you get an updated driver it means that they've either fixed a problem in translation, or made an optimization that translates that better to the card that you have.   When new games come out, sometimes the game uses features in a graphics library in ways that are unexpected and can be optimized by changing how they are translated and given to the card, it's in the card manufacturer's best interest to make sure their cards perform well so they often work with developers to make sure they can get the best performance, sometimes necessitating a new driver version.

Question: Why is the Universal Basic Income in Switzerland a bad thing ?
Answer: Switzerland is one of the wealthiest nations per capita on Earth. It achieved this feat in spite of being a landlocked country with pretty but mediocre land by offering an extremely business-friendly environment with low taxes.  Thanks to this, even the poor of Switzerland are better off than the poor of most other countries.

The money for basic income must come from somewhere.  To obtain it, you must raise taxes. The only place this tax money can come from is from the wealthy as taxing the poor would defeat the purpose.

The wealthy are highly mobile. Lower tax jurisdictions like Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, and Monaco are all close by.  If the wealthy leave, their current taxes leave with them.  Additionally, businesses will choose to expand in other nations, and move operations as Switzerland is already a terribly expensive place to be.

Finally, this redistribution takes money from those who invest in growing an economy, and gives it to those who will primarily consume. It would reduce future economic growth that benefits everyone through jobs and class mobility.

As the wealthy and businesses flee, the country becomes poorer, unemployment rises, and basic income becomes unsustainable.

Question: How did we get metal to think? How does it know what the 1's and 0's are? Is it at it's core mechanical?
Answer: You might be referring to [this quote](_URL_1_) about computers "thinking".

[Here is a really good video] (_URL_0_) where people build a computer out of domino pieces. You can clearly see that those dominoes perform calculation, but they do not "think", it just happens because of the way they are arranged.

Metal does not think either. A computer does not think. A transistor puts out electricity (1 or 0) depending if you give it electricity or not. After all, it does not know what is 1 or 0. It is all just a bunch of transistors that electricity goes through, which in turn do calculations. A computer doesn't think "what is answer to 2 + 2", you just put electricity into it and it gives out the result. 


Computer seems to think, because programs on the screen somethings say such things. "Waiting to download...", "Processing..." etc. Those are just abstractions which are created so humans would have some analogy what the computer is doing. All in all it is just tiny transistors that do not think.

The computer does millions or even billions of similar calculations (like in the domino video) per second, sometimes the binary numbers represent data, like color, letter, internet address, sometimes instruction, sometimes something else.

Question: Why is soda a soothing chaser for alcohol?
Answer: The carbonation helps to disperse remaining alcohol from the palate and tongue. 

Plus, it has a sugary taste.

Question: What is "development hell"?
Answer: > "Development hell or development limbo is media industry jargon for a state during which a film or other project remains in development without progressing to production. A film, video game, television program, screenplay, computer program, concept, or idea stranded in development hell."


TL;DR When a game/film is not making any progress/being scrapped and restarting, Example: completely starting from scratch over and over

Source: Google/Being a developer.

Question: Why does America have such a weird voting system?
Answer: By comparison, Americans would think it weird that in parliamentary systems, you literally have no say in who becomes the head of your government.

Our system is a first-past-the-post (FPTP) system, in which case there is mathematically no reason not to have just two big-tent parties that cover a wide amount of the electorate. It doesn't matter if you win or lose by 1% or by 20%, a loss is a loss is a loss, and a win is a win is a win. Many have issue with the FPTP system, and want it changed, but doing so is probably going to require a Constitutional Amendment, which would be rather hard to pass.

It also doesn't help that the two major third parties in the US are both rather insane, and thus are marginalized because of how crazy their party members are. Case-in-point, Jill Stein is on record stating that wifi hurts children's minds, and her party (the Greens) held that vaccines cause autism right up until this Spring. In addition, Gary Johnson is considered a moderate by his party (the Libertarians) and barely won their nomination, and yet he wants to return the US to a commodity-backed currency, and believes that we shouldn't fight global warming because the Sun is going to destroy the Earth in a few billion years anyway.

Question: How did herbivorous dinosaurs get so large while have so little protein in their diet?
Answer: Part of what allows Herbivores to grow as large as they do is that the Digestive Systems in Herbivores are optimized for extracting every bit of protein available from the food they eat. Their digestive tracts can also make some proteins from food that lack proteins. A good example is a a cow's Digestive Tract: It has four stomachs, all for getting the most nutrient possible out of every bite. 

Also, plants aren't necessarily devoid of protein. Plants have Keratin, which most predators, and humans, can't digest. Herbivores however, usually can digest it. This greater diversity to what a Herbivore can eat allows them to have access to a surprising amount of protein and nutrients.

Question: How does Square Cash instantly send money to your card, where as a deposit or check from your company can take days?
Answer: You're comparing two different cash methods. Payroll uses ACH (automated clearinghouse) transfers, while Square Cash uses the debit card network.

Square cash works by instantly debiting the sender's bank account, just like if they used their debit card at a store. The sender instantly receives the money, as it is treated like a debit card refund. Debit card transactions have to work fast because funds need to be confirmed available at point of sale. If there's no money availble, the purchase will be declined.

When your paycheck is transfered to you, it uses an ACH network, which is a large conglomerate of bank transfers using your bank account number and bank routing number. It is essentially a digital check. These transfers are done in batches, and take longer to process, usually take at least 24 hours.



TL;dr: Square cash uses debit cards while payroll uses digital checks

Question: What is Murphy's Law. How did it come about. And in what everyday concept these laws can be applied.
Answer: Anything that can go wrong, will go wrong. It's not really a law of nature, just a saying. It's not named after anyone specific, just check the wiki page for it. 

It's not so much applied as a law, just a thing to keep in mind. If you design something that works 99% of the time but that 1% of the time it kills someone, you need to design that flaw out. 

Tl;Dr is a saying, engineers like it because sometimes we build things that hurt people.

Question: How do bytes take up "space"?
Answer: Your hard drive is a round plate, kind of like an old record. It's divided into thousands and thousands of "sectors", tiny little spots. 

Each one of those tiny spots is a byte... When you save a byte on your hard drive, the drive head makes a change in the magnetic charge in that spot.

The computer turns these positive and negative magnetic charges into ones and zeroes.

Question: Piet Mondrian's art
Answer: The key to art history is to ask who the art was meant to be viewed by.  At the time of Mondrian's rise the "art world" was moving away from photorealism thanks to photographs and into more experimental areas.  He's basically just an extension of the opinions of that time that created Van Gogh et al.  Think of it like someone from the distant future listening to dubstep and shaking his head thinking how that could be music without first having the cultural backdrop we have today of dance music, techno pop, synth bands etc etc. If you really want to appreciate it you have to understand the art atmosphere of the time, ie the 'new york school', and how that created the art we have today.  TL:dr : He wowed the guys of his time by taking what was already happening to the next level.

Question: How is lucid dreaming possible if dreams are simply a construction of the mind created in a matter of seconds?
Answer: Because your subconscious moves and thinks at a much faster rate than your conscious mind. If a dream that only lasts for a few seconds in reality can seem like it lasts hours in your dream state then it's quite obvious your subconscious can keep up with the speed of its own creation.

Question: Why the Winter War happened
Answer: Relations between Russia and Finland had been strained since WWI. 

Russia felt that Finland was weak, and that they would be able to easily seize a decent chunk of territory. Most of the rest of Europe was distracted by Germany gearing up to start WWII, and so the Russians felt that nobody else would really do much to help Finland if they invaded.

Question: How does light transfer data in optical fibers?
Answer: When data is transmitted over a wire, the wire is turned on and off very quickly. Thousands of times per second, it checks if the wire is currently on. If the signal is off, that is interpreted as a 0. If it's on, that's a 1.

Light travels through fiber optic cables. It's basically done the same way, but instead of electricity it uses flashes of light.

Question: Can anyone launch a satellite? Or are there laws claiming space territory?
Answer: Per the [Outer Space Treaty](_URL_0_) of 1967, governments cannot stake a claim to territory in space—so yes, space is indeed borderless. However, to get to outer space, Spacex's rockets first have to pass through the airspace directly above the US, which the Federal Aviation Administration *does* have jurisdiction over, thus requiring their approval.

Question: Why do people relate their feelings and decisions with heart when they are completely related to brain?
Answer: In ancient times people believed the seed of your emotions was in your chest because whenever you are angry, stressed, scared, excited, etc. you can physically feel something happening in your chest that correlates to that emotion (i.e. if you are very scared, the rhythm of your heartbeat increases rapidly, which you can feel and associate with being scared).

Question: How is child pornography taken down so efficiently from all over the web while it's so easy to find for instance pirate movies  &  TV series?
Answer: Police actively enforce the Child Pornography issues so its forced to go much much more underground and its generally illegal everywhere.

Piracy is a copyright issue. A police officer cant arrest you for just being in possession of a digital copy of a movie. The owner of the copyright has to put a claim against you etc. Its more complicated and then they can charge you etc. It just being online isn't in and of itself illegal right off the bat.

Question: what do the different temperatures on a washing machine do to my clothes?
Answer: Hot water generally cleans better but ages the clothes faster.  Unless it's stained, I wash cold/cold and hang all my good shirts, shorts, and pants to dry.  Warm *should* wash fastest, since it should fill the washer faster.  YMMV.

If you follow the care labels on your clothing they will last a lot longer than if you warm wash everything and machine dry everything on normal or heavy settings.

Question: What kinds of things do high-priced lawyers do that get better results for their clients than what public defenders are able to do?
Answer: When you pay for a high price lawyer, you're paying for skill and time. An expensive lawyer has several paralegals working under him that can spend a lot of time digging through old court cases looking for cases like yours. Once the lawyer has these cases, he can craft an argument based on them stating why you are innocent or deserve a lighter sentence.

Question: Google hasn't helped, what are the true reasons a cat hisses?
Answer: To threaten an imposing or suspected danger, to make it clear it means business and will attack or defend whatever is being contested with aggression, to notify others it is angry, and signal others to stay the hell away and scare off potential enemies. They hiss when they are angry, territorial, startled, in pain or in other distress.

Question: When a court orders an individual to pay restitution in the millions of dollars, how much does that person actually pay?
Answer: The person collecting will go through a process where they seize the person's assets. There are restrictions to what they can seize, like I think they have to leave you one vehicle (probably depends on the jurisdiction) and after they've done that, potentially garnish wages. 

For the most part though, everyone involved knows you're not going to get three million out of your average joe. What's more important, though, is that there will probably be an appeal. Now, the odds aren't actually great that the apartment complex will get three million again (nature of appeals). BUT they've already shown they have a very strong case and the judge is willing to find in their favor. So what happens? They figure out how much they CAN get from the guy, and go settle for that amount. Maybe half a million. The guy says, well shit, it'll ruin my business but at least I won't be miserable having one car and a studio apartment the rest of my life. And he takes the deal. This is great for the plaintiff because they know they're never really getting their three million, and they don't have to go through a lengthy collection process, appeal process, and wait on garnished wages. They just get a lump sum of half a million dollars.

Question: What is the margin of error?
Answer: in statistics, its very hard to get an exact number. Most of the calculations for certain statistics come with that factor, a margin of error. Its basically the amount of possible variance in the answer. so 20% with a margin of error of 5% means the actual answer could be from 15%-25% but its definitely somewhere in there.

Question: how do silencers on guns work?
Answer: The bullet is launched out of the gun by an explosion that superheats the air and produces a loud BAM sound. The gas/air that carries that sound wave doesn't have anywhere to go except out with the bullet. A silencer basically extends the barrel and helps that "explosion air" diffuse in other directions so that the resulting explosion from the gunshot is much quieter.

Movies and games that have a "pew pew pew" sound with the silencer attached are doing it wrong - it really is still an explosive sound, just heavily subdued, like a brick hitting a sandbag or something.

Question: why aren't all toilets tankless (like the ones in commercial buildings)?
Answer: Homes generally do not have access to the high flow water sources required to make one of those toilets work.

Question: Why do Republicans want to repeal The Affordable Health Care Act so badly?
Answer: It's not really a giant health insurance plan, it's a bunch of reforms to the health care system, one of which being an online marketplace where you can buy private health insurance. The main issue that Republicans have is that one of the reforms is that having health insurance is now mandatory, and there will be a tax penalty for anyone who chooses not to buy it.

Question: Why are we grossed out by the thought of our family members having sex or masturbating?
Answer: For sexually reproducing species, incest is often problematic because closely related family members are likely to share genetic problems with you that are then exacerbated in the children of incestuous couples. For this reason, many species have some sort of control against incest, typically behavioral. In humans, that control is revulsion at the idea of having sex or even thinking about sex with people who we had close contact with growing up. If we were not disgusted by envisioning family members engaged in sexual acts we might instead be aroused. This would create an evolutionary pressure against the aroused group because their children and their children's children wouldn't be able to breed as well and the family arousal trait would be out-competed by the the family disgust trait.

Question: Why do sour foods make faces move involuntarily?
Answer: Many sour foods are poisonous, we are programmed to reject sour foods with "disgust", same as when you see other unhealthy things like feces and Kanye West. 

There was a good BBC Horizon show on Disgust years back. I found this article.

_URL_0_

Question: Why are dreams so much more vivid if you wake up during them?
Answer: Your brain actually tries to forget dreams. Most people have more than three per night, and forget most of them. If you wake up during a dream, your brain hasn't had time to try to forget it. Partially forgotten dreams, either by waking up before the memory has faded or by the mind failing to completely forget it, will seem much duller than a fresh dream.

Question: Why don't people get drunk on rubbing alcohol?
Answer: Ethyl alcohol sold as rubbing alcohol is denatured. Meaning it's mixed with poisonous and disgusting tasting substances to make it undrinkable. The additives are also selected to ensure that it's difficult to purify the alcohol with distillation.

Question: What motivates people to write thousands/millions of lines of code for open source software for free?
Answer: I like to think of OSS developers as in two categories

1 - People actually EMPLOYED to do work, and are legally obligated to submit their work back into the OSS source tree for whatever reason

2 - Weekend Warriors, College Kids or Bored Teenagers with nothing to do and kind of "get off" on seeing people use their creation and commit something to the greater good. They like solving complex problems, and doing something cool that others can use is a great feeling

Question: Why is reading so encouraged and preached to be the best thing you can do for your mind?
Answer: Your perspective is limited by the thoughts you can think with the knowlege you already have. Think of a spotlight pointed at the ground at night. The main body of light is your current t knowlege. The outside aura of light are new connections you could possibly make with your current knowlege. Books expose you to thinking in new ways and very in-depth knowlege of other people. Because of the slow rate of reading you have plenty of time to absorb lots of information. I also have heard many times that watching something on a screen bypasses parts of your brain and you more readily accept the information as true without first questioning it against your current base of knowlege. Not sure what truth is in this but it seems somewhat accurate due to personal experience.

Question: Why Bing is so poor compared to Google search engine and showing no sign of catching up or improving
Answer: Bing is actually excellent at certain things.  But my interest in it is usually short-lived.

Question: If you took three rigid cubes/shapes of identical size, filled one with "regular" air, one with hydrogen gas, and one put under complete vacuum, which would have the: least weight? most buoyancy in water? least mass?
Answer: What makes you think that the container filled with hydrogen "weighs less" than the vacuum one? Weight is a result of gravity, which depends on mass. The container filled with hydrogen has more mass than the one filled with "nothing," and thus weighs more.

edit: and they weigh the same regardless of where they are; at the surface of the water, underwater, not in water at all, whatever.

second edit: I think your confusion might be from the fact that a hydrogen balloon rises in air, which makes you think it "weighs less." A "vacuum-filled" balloon would also rise in air. A balloon floating is a result of buoyancy, just the medium is air instead of water.

Question: Can I build the internet from scratch?
Answer: Yes!  Well, if you're a network engineer, it will be easier.  And it will also be easier now, rather than when they built the first one, because all the software has already been written.

1. If you have a **simple** **network** at home, it doesn't really need to be connected to the Internet for the computers to talk to each other, and within just a handful of computers, it will work fine.

2. However, as you connect more and more computers, it will get more complicated, and you'll have to re-invent the things the Internet does.  For example, in your home network, the only thing deciding where the packets go is your ethernet switch.  These can't handle particularly large networks.  Eventually, you'll need **routing**, where you assign particular addresses to particular parts of the network -- for example, 1.*.*.* is your house, and 2.*.*.* is your neighbor's house, and routers will know where the packet should go based on the address.

3. As you connect more and more computers, you may not be managing the whole network yourself.  Other people will be managing their own networks, and you will be **internetworking** between them, i.e. connecting networks together.  For example, your network is in house **A** and is connected to house **B**.  And house **B** is connected to house **C**, but you don't know that!  Your neighbor in B needs some way to tell you that it can get packets to C for you.  On the Internet, the thing that does that is called **BGP**, or "border gateway protocol".  It helps networks managed by different groups to work together.  Now you have **a** **internet**.  (Not **The** **Internet**, though.) 

4. Eventually it will be hard to keep track of numbers, so you'll want names for things, like _URL_0_, and a way to turn that into numbers.  This is **domain** **registrars**, to keep track of who is in charge of each domain, and **domain** **name** **system**, to actually change those various names into numbers.

As I said, you can borrow the programs to manage that from the ones the real Internet uses -- most are free -- but you could also make your own versions that work differently.  And obviously, you'll need to buy a whole lot of fiber or cable of some sort, depending on how big you want it!

Question: Why does only your own saliva take out your own blood in fabric (like a tshirt)?
Answer: Not true at all.  Even if saliva can remove blood (it can, but so can water), whether or not it comes from the same source as the blood makes absolutely no difference.

Question: Exactly how is smoking weed different from eating edibles. Not in your mind but chemically.
Answer: When you eat it it gets processed by your liver into 11-hydroxy-THC. Which is said to be 5 times more psychoactive than when you smoke or vaporize cannabis.

Question: Why is Bill Cosby not in prison yet?
Answer: Because

1. The statute of limitations for the crimes Cosby is accused of has passed. 
2. Because given the length of time between the acts and now, there is little chance of there being enough evidence to prove his guilt "beyond a reasonable doubt."

Question: Is Irish a race or a nationality?
Answer: That's ridiculous. Irish is a nationality. They might say those kids aren't Irish because they don't have the right accent it don't follow the traditions, it happens in all closed communities, but they are as Irish as the taoiseach (current or past). It has nothing to do with race.

Question: Why aren't Chinese people typically fat? We eat so much rice on a near daily basis.
Answer: The answer is extremely simple: a modest number of total calories per day. (Often combined with a decent amount of exercise through work, walking, and/or cycling.)

No matter what *kind* of food you eat, if the *total calories consumed* don't exceed the number you burn, you cannot get fat.

Question: Why don't highways have designated cruise control sections/lanes?
Answer: People still have to enter and exit this section unless they are to stay in it eternally.  Traffic speeds and slows from congestion (as in, not accidents) purely from people making adjustments to change lanes. 

Consider that the range of speeds people travel down a highway doesn't vary that much normally. The thing affecting them is this merging.

Question: Where do the newborn babies in television come from?
Answer: Most babies you see on TV are actually a lot older than you think. Most are at least a few months old.

Question: What exactly is a leasehold and freehold in UK property? How is it possible for you to buy the leasehold but not the freehold on a house?
Answer: It would be unusual to buy a leasehold house.

Leasehold properties are usually flats.

The freeholder owns the building, and the land on which the building is built.

You own a lease (it usually starts off at 125 years or 1000 years) on a particular property within that building. Basically, this means you rent your property on a 125 year or 1000 year contract, except that unlike a normal rental property, you actually own this lease and have the right to sell it to someone else.

Normally when you own a leasehold property you have to pay a maintenance fee to a management company. This covers the cost of maintaining the building, paying the gardener, keeping the lift running, paying for the upkeep of the private gym and the cost of the concierge (obviously not all of these apply to all blocks of flats!)

Additionally, you have to pay ground-rent. This is literally just a rental fee. Some places charge a small annual fee, maybe £100 or so. Others charge what is known as a "peppercorn fee" - a nominal amount which would, once upon a time, have literally been a peppercorn, but now it's more likely to be £1.

In contrast, if you own a freehold, then you own the land outright. You don't pay anyone anything unless you choose to, but of course you will need to pay to maintain your property unless you want it to fall apart.

Question: How do colorblindness correction glasses work?
Answer: The website for the company that makes them has a pretty good explanation. Basically what happens is you have four types of light sensors in your eye: red, green, and blue cones plus rods. Their affinity to register light of different frequencies is shown [here](_URL_0_), which basically means that a photon at 420 nm is very likely to set off a blue cone and less likely to set off a rod, while a photon at 500 nm will likely set off a rod but almost certainly won't set off a blue cone. (Note that the responses are normalized, which means that you shouldn't compare the actual heights of the different curves, just the shapes.) When the different colors of cones fire you see different colors, and when the rods fire you see white. When you see yellow it's because both your red and green cones are firing at the same time--every different color you can perceive corresponds to a different ratio of different types of cones firing. (Extra credit: that means that each monochromatic visible light of a different wavelength looks like a different color, but there's lots of ways to *combine* different frequencies to make the same color.) The rods are mostly used in dim light, so bright white light is caused by all the types of cones firing about the same amount.

Now, colorblindness. The issue with red-green colorblindness is that instead of having different frequency responses, the red and green cones have about the same frequency response in colorblind people. That means that any light causes them to fire the same amount, which makes red and green both look yellow. The glasses take advantage of the fact that the frequency responses still aren't exactly the same--they just overlap much more than they're supposed to. The glasses use nonlinear effects to make light with wavelengths shorter than 550 nm have even shorter wavelengths, and light with wavelengths longer than 550 nm have even longer wavelengths. That means light that should normally stimulate the green but not red cones, when passed through the glasses is shifted far enough towards blue that it really does stimulate the green cones more than the red (and similarly with light that should normally stimulate just the red cones).

Question: if cameras take square photos, why are the apertures round?
Answer: You've sort of got it the wrong way round. The camera LENSES are round, because round lenses bend light much better. But the film the image is captured on is rectangular, for the same reason that all pictures are usually rectangles, easier to frame and they are easier to put onto walls.

Modern camera sensors have just continued this. Also when light is bent by a round lens, the images around the edges are often distorted, by using rectangle sensors you are just cropping these out and getting a better image.

Question: What has caused Brazil to become as major of a country as it is?
Answer: They have a large area, large exploitable population, lots of natural resources, and are politically stable.

Question: Why do they say to "breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth" when exercising?
Answer: When you breathe in through your nose you're filtering the air before it goes into your lungs, and pulling it through a smaller opening, forcing you to inhale slower taking deeper breaths. You exhale through your mouth because it's a bigger opening and you want to get the 'bad air' out as fast as you can. 

Your nose also helps regulate the temperature of the air you're breathing. When it goes in your mouth it goes very quickly into your lungs, and if it's too cold it can be jarring to your lungs. I'd guess, when it's way too hot out, like today, it also serves to cool it down a bit.

Question: What would happen if NATO broke up?
Answer: Well nothing immediately. But obviously each member state would be more vulnerable to attack, with a particular problem to the Eastern European countries.

Question: The naming conventions of sea vessels, HMS, SS, RMS etc.
Answer: AHT	Anchor Handling Tug

AHTS	Anchor Handling Tug Supply vessel

CRV	Coastal Research Vessel

C/F	Car Ferry

CS	Cable Ship

DB	Derrick Barge

DEPV	Diesel Electric Paddle Vessel

DLB	Derrick Lay Barge

DCV	Deepwater Construction Vessel

DSV	Diving Support Vessel/ Deep Submergence Vehicle

DV	Dead vessel[1]

ERRV	Emergency Response Rescue Vessel[citation needed]

FPSO	Floating Production, Storage and Offloading Vessel

FPV	Free Piston Vessel

FPV	Fishery Patrol Vessel

FV	Fishing Vessel

GTS	Gas Turbine Ship

HLV	Heavy lift vessel

HSC	High Speed Craft

HSF	High Speed Ferry

HTV	Heavy Transport Vessel

IRV	International Research Vessel

ISV	International Space Vehicle

LB	Liftboat

LNG/C	Liquefied natural gas carrier

LPG/C	Liquefied petroleum gas carrier

MF	Motor Ferry

MS (M/S)	Motor Ship (interchangeable[citation needed] with MV)

MSV	Multipurpose support/supply vessel

MSY	Motor Sailing Yacht

MT	Motor Tanker

MV (M/V)	Motor Vessel (interchangeable[citation needed] with MS)
[citation needed]

MY	Motor Yacht

nb	Narrowboat

NRV	NATO Research Vessel

NS	Nuclear Ship

OSV	Offshore Supply Vessel

PS	Paddle Steamer

PSV	Platform Supply Vessel

RV	Research Vessel

RMS	Royal Mail Ship or Royal Mail Steamer

SB	Sailing Barge

SS (S/S)	Steamship (with screw propellers, can be either coal- or oil-
fired)

SSCV	Semi-Submersible Crane Vessel

SSV	Sailing School Vessel, Submarine and Special Warfare Support 
Vessel[2]

ST	Steam Tug

STS	Sail Training Ship

STV	Sail Training Vessel or Steam Turbine Vessel

SV	Sailing Vessel

SY	Sailing Yacht or Steam Yacht

TEV	Turbine Electric Vessel

TIV	Turbine Installation Vessel

TS	Training Ship

TSS	Turbine Steam Ship or Twin Screw Steamer

TV	Training vessel


there are also prefixes for certain countries (USS would be United States Ship, FS is French Ship, JDS is Japan Defense Ship, HMS is His/Her Majesty's Ship/Submarine, ect)

Question: If Republicans are such terrible leaders (responsible for govt shutdown, etc) why are they still elected?
Answer: In the US, people tend to think everyone in congress is a bunch of idiots...except their guy.  The guy they voted for is the one voice of reason trying to find common sense solutions and everyone else is out for themselves.

Question: How does Medical Residency and Internship work after med school
Answer: To be clear, your first year of residency is referred to as 'internship,' and yes, you are paid. You are a doctor, and you are expected to see patients in the hospital and clinic, and do whatever else physicians in your specialty do on a day-to-day basis (operate, catch babies, whatever). You're supervised by older residents and by your staff to help you avoid fucking up too badly.

You also read and study a ton, attend classes and conferences, take outside training as needed in your specialty, take exams, teach younger residents and med students, etc and so on.

Basically it's like working two full-time jobs (80 hr/week) plus taking a full college course load. Welcome to the Jungle.

Question: Wisdom Teeth
Answer: * They are a third set of molars at the back of your mouth.

* They come in at around 18-20 years because before then, your mouth would be too small and there wouldn't be room for them

* Sometimes they don't come in right because our mouths are smaller than they were 100,000 years ago, laregly because ever since this "cooking" thing started, we've had a lot less chewing to do.

* The evolutionary purpose they serve was to be extra teeth to grind with. If you ever see hominid skulls from 100,000+ years ago, any that made it past 20-30 years had their teeth ground way, way down. That's because before cooking and relatively modern food processing (I'm talking about grinding grain to bake bread with), our diet required a lot of long periods of chewing. Teeth would wear down. If you got to the point where you had no more molars left, you basically would have starved. So having an extra four molars in your mouth, once your head was big enough to hold them, was an advantage.

Source: Forensic Anthropology course in university

Question: how do IP addresses work? What is a network mask?
Answer: An IP address is basically just like your normal address. Imagine I wrote my address like this

 >  Nevada.Smalltown.Main Street.8

That's basically how an IP address works. It tells you to go to Nevada, then find Smalltown, then find Main Street, then look for number 8

And as for a network mask: well, the one for my "local" network, my street, would be something like this

 >  Nevada.Smalltown.Main Street.0

Where "0" means "everything". We never assign number 0 to any houses (or computers, for IP's). Essentially it says "Everything under Nevada.Smalltown.Main Street is part of my local chunk of network". Equally we could say "Everyone in my town" by using this instead:

 >  Nevada.Smalltown.0.0

Which means "Every house on every street in Nevada". In theory you could also use something like Nevada.Smalltown.0.8, which means "Every house with the number 8", but in the real world with IP addresses there's no actual use for this

Note that IP addresses are a little less literal than this example: if you have a row of 10 computers in an office, they won't necessarily (or even probably) have IP addresses x.x.x.1 to x.x.x.10: it's more about who the IP addresses "belong" to.

So, for example, my ISP might use the IP addresses 88.200.0.0 (eg everything starting 88.200....) this gives them around 65,000 addresses in that "block". So anyone looking for 88.200.1.1 will go to my IP address and ask them to send it to me

Question: Explain art.
Answer: Art is meant to entertain. Because life has no definite purpose, art is created in order to help give life purpose, or at least take our minds off of life's lack of purpose. Almost anything can be considered an art.

Paintings that depicts realistic looking scenes like landscapes and portraits do this in a very closed-ended way. That is, if it's a painting of a tree, there's really only one way to interpret that painting.

However, abstract art like that of Pollack and all of the other artists you've mentioned, fill the void of existance in a more open-ended way. Their paintings are meant to inspire feelings just like any other painting, but the viewer has more of a choice in what feelings are being inspired because they have more choice in what they are seeing.

Question: Why hasn't there been a viable 3rd Party in American politics to date?
Answer: It's because of the "first past the post" method of determining the winner.  Whoever gets the most votes wins, rather than the candidate having to secure a simple majority of 50% plus one.  Third parties end up skewing the results and acting as "spoilers".  There have been successful third parties — the Republican Party, for one.  There's also the matter of the two main parties doing everything they can to keep viable third party candidates off the ballot or handicapped in one way or another.  Ranked choice voting is one solution to this rather undemocratic feature of our system.

Question: What is blood type? Why is our blood different?
Answer: Not quite 5, but I'll give it a shot.

Blood type refers to the type of cell marker that exists on the outside of your red blood cells.  There are 3 types- A, B, and O.  If you have A, B is considered foreign so you will have anti-B antibodies.  The same can be said for A if you have B type blood.   If you have O, it is neither A nor B so you make antibodies for both A and B.   AB blood types have no antibodies since both types are present on their cells.   Type ABs are referred to as "universal recipients" because they have no antibodies in their blood and can therefore receive any type of blood without fear of the body rejecting it.  Type Os are the universal donors under most condition but this can vary depending on other more complicated factors since as I mentioned before they have anti-A and anti-B antibodies.

These types are genetic.  A and B are dominant to O, and if you get an A from one parent and a B from another, you will be AB (co-dominant).

Question: why do body parts hurt long after an injury is healed, especially when the weather changes?
Answer: Well, I don't know about bone fractures.  Most of the Pain - >  Weather predictions I've seen have been about joint pain.

The most common explanation is that damaged joints respond to changes in atmospheric pressure.  Rain, and especially large storms, are accompanied by a drop in pressure.  That pressure drop causes damaged tissue (from arthritis, an injury, etc.) to swell up.  The swelling tissue causes the joint to ache and alerts the person to the impending weather change.

Question: Why is my graphics card so big compared to my CPU?
Answer: Your graphics card has it's own RAM. Your CPU's RAM is on the motherboard. Technically you're counting the GPU, it's board, and RAM, and cooling stuff as one thing. So if you do that with the CPU too, the CPU is much bigger since its board is the motherboard.

Question: Why are terraced houses in New York and possibly other places elevated?
Answer: They have lower levels (originally servants quarters) besides the main entrance, they usually go below street level. Every place is different, but I would assume that the underground pipping as well as water level do not allow for basements of considerable depth, which is why he main level is above street level. These lower levels have their own exterior door and are rented out.

Question: Why does daycare cost so much when the teachers are paid so poorly?
Answer: It's for much the same reason that private schools are very expensive: teachers' salaries are only a small portion of the costs of operating the business. Add to this these costs: 

* Supplies
* Rent for the facilities
* Administrative costs (licensed daycares have to cope with mountains of paperwork to comply with state and local laws)
* Taxes
* FICA/Medicare for employees
* Training for the teachers
* Liability insurance
* Legal counsel
* Employee benefits (if provided)
* etc.

Question: What is the controversy of CrossFit exercise programs?
Answer: It's olympic lifts (good) but focused on speed and reps at the expense of form and safety (bad).

Question: Why do we feel hot when the air is as hot as or colder than our internal body temperature?
Answer: Because our bodies don't just sit at our preferred temperature.  Humans are warm-blooded;  we produce heat constantly as a byproduct of the chemical reactions in our body that maintain our metabolism.  That means that we have to constantly get rid of heat at the rate that our body produces it just to stay at the same temperature.  Otherwise, we'll overheat and possibly die.

When the air is near our internal temperature, the rate at which we lose heat to the environment slows down.  When the air reaches our internal temperature, we can no longer lose heat the normal way, and we have to sweat, which allows us to lose heat via evaporative cooling.

Question: What is the weight of gravity in pounds and how to find it?
Answer: Gravity is a force, while weight is the effect of gravity on a given mass. You cannot convert gravity in to weight. It's like asking me to tell you the speed of your car using only the measurement of how much gas you have in the tank.

Question: Why can't "We the People" petition to have the NSA shut down (and it actually work..)?
Answer: That would be a [direct democracy](_URL_0_). The United States of America is a representative democracy, the people's voice is heard by proxy of their representative.

Question: Why can some humans survive thousands of feet while others die after a short fall?
Answer: It all has to do with mechanics and overall health.

If you're reasonably healthy, well built, and happen to land the "right" way so that your body can absorb the shock of the landing, you may be bruised or even break something but you should be ok.

Meanwhile, a leading cause of death in old people is falls. Older people have far more brittle bones and the like and it's much easier for them to fracture something and lead to even more internal damage.

There's also the mechanics of the fall. If you fall in a way that you can use the momentum to "correct" the fall (like you see a lot of parkour practitioners do), you should be alright. But if you fall maybe a short distance and land on your head with nothing absorbing the fall or getting rid of the kinetic energy that really damages you, you're going to be injured or die.

Bear in mind that falls are basically vertical collisions. Some people can survive being hit head on by a truck while others die immediately in some other wrecks.

Question: Why don't we sue politicians for broken election promises as breach of verbal contract?
Answer: There is a saying that a verbal contract isn't worth the paper its printed on. But beyond that humorous quote, there is a better reason. 

An elected official can simply say that the situation or information changed in the time between the campaign and the vote, which is a great defense, because that's how we want our representatives to act.

Question: Why can't they make a cheap car that is made of basic parts internally, but looks high end externally?
Answer: The look of a Lamborghini does cost lots of money to make.  Lots of weird shapes in the metal and plastic.  Expensive materials, etc.  It's not just the engine that is pricey.

What you're describing is basically a kit car, which are available and hobbyists put them together to be exactly this.

People who like sports cars don't just like how they look, but how they handle and accelerate and lots of other things.  Your average person might want a Lambo in their garage but probably don't want to get stared at or ooed and ahhd at driving it around town, and would probably be terrified of parking it in a public place.  Most people don't like nearly lying down in their driver's seat like you do in a lambo.  They like to have a place to put a bag of groceries, or a couple other people or kids. 

That said, there are plenty of cheap sporty looking cars out there.

Question: EL 5, How is it that "polar bear" clubs can go swimming in January and not die of hypothermia?
Answer: They basically just go in and out of the water, and they're prepared with towels and warm clothes as soon as they're done. Even in near-freezing water, it takes at least 10-15 minutes for hypothermia to happen. Also, at least in the bigger polar bear clubs, there's medical staff around in case of emergencies.

Question: Til Death do us Part. Do religious people believe they are all single in Heaven?
Answer: This is coming from a Christian perspective, but marriage is seen as an earthly example of our relationship with Christ, we find fulfillment in caring and loving on our spouse and we get the benefit of them doing the same for us. Now once we get to heaven we are completely and entirely fulfilled by God for He is our ultimate desire of the relationship we were seeking on earth. Now we still get to chill with our loved ones but it marriage is no longer needed like it was, sorry if that was too preachy, hope that makes sense

Question: Vulgar Latin and it's difference between Classical Latin
Answer: Vulgar Latin uses more vocabulary that made it into modern Romance languages, and the sentence structure is often more like the modern Romance languages too.  So stuff like: occasionally, you'll see the relative pronoun (qui quae quod) used to mark indirect discourse instead of accusative + infinitive constructions.

The pronunciation is also different, but that probably won't matter in your class.

Most people I've spoken to have said they found Mediaeval Latin 'easier' than Classical Latin.

And the subject matter is often more church-focused, so you'll run into lots of new ecclesiastical vocabulary often borrowed from Greek (eg episcopus for bishop, angelus for angel/messenger (of God)), or new meanings for old words (eg Dominus for the Lord, God, rather than the head of a household)

Question: I've never seen a fat bird. Is that because flying is vital for them to survive so natural selection kills them or because birds simply don't get fat?
Answer: People commenting here don't know what they're talking about. Birds do get fat the closer you get to the cold extremes (arctic, mountain peaks). You've never seen one because, I assume, you haven't been to these types of places. Furthermore, you wouldn't know how fat the bird is until you kill and butcher it, but I promise, there are fat birds.

Yes, flight is a big part of their survival, but so is fat in the cold weather. As with most things, there's a balance. When colder season come, birds store fat. Not enough that they cannot fly anymore, but they do store fat. When it's time to migrate, a lot of that fat gets burned off.

Question: How does paracetomol work?
Answer: The mechanism of action for Paracetamol/acetomenophen is not entirely understood. It *probably* inhibits COX, which is an enzyme that is part of the chemical pathway for chemical pain signals in the body. Inhibit the enzyme, the body makes less pain-signalling chemicals.

Question: Why is "I don't like sand" line from Attack of the Clones considered so bad?
Answer: It's supposed to be Anakin's smooth line to use on Padme and it's just so derpy and cringeworthy. Lucas has such a tin ear for dialogue that Harrison Ford said to him, "You can type this shit, George, but you can't say it."

Question: Do you need a computer to create a computer?
Answer: Assuming that all humans alive today survived, there's a tremendous amount of knowledge and experience that could be used to quickly bypass lots of steps along the way.

As an example of this, check out [the best Commodore 64 games](_URL_0_) from the mid 1980's, and compare that to the winners of the [2010's Commodore 64 Demoscene](_URL_1_) where people take all of the advances in programming from the last 30 years and apply them to old hardware.

It's true that modern computers are designed and built in part by computers, so it'd probably take several years to rebuild simple computers by hand, then use those to build more and more complex computers from there. But it'd take far less than 70 years to "catch up" because we have the advantage of knowing the full history.

Question: What is more environmentally friendly forced air hand dryers or paper towel?
Answer: New air dryers (like the dyson air blade) are more environmentally friendly than paper towels. Older dryers might not be, because they use more power.

Question: why does all music attach me to something thats occuring in my life and make me feel nostalgic even a weel later?
Answer: Because that's effectively how your brain functions. Your brain is a collection of neurons that fire in sequence. Your brain is always being adjusted, new connections are formed as you 'learn' new 'information'. Essentially, your brain is correlating an experience of life with the auditory experience of that specific music. So when the neurons for that music are activated the adjoining ones referencing that memory/experience are fired in tandem. Your brain does this for pretty much everything. I say 'game' you think 'fun'. I say 'car', you think 'travel' or 'speed'. The only difference is that it isn't language it's music. So yes I'd go as far as to say this is normal. It would depend on how often you listen, the time difference between the experience and the listening session, as well as how long you hold on to specific tracks of music.

Question: What is the point of having a complex password? If someone figures out your password what does the complexity change?
Answer: It makes it harder for someone to find out your password.

It's not difficult to build a computer system which tries your username, with a password that's a word from a dictionary, over and over again. Such a system can go through a whole dictionary in a couple of hours. This method of finding a password is known as a "brute force" attack. So using a word from a dictionary (or a person's name, or anything else very common that people can easily make a list of) makes it easy for someone to find your password with this method.

Using a long combination of letters and numbers, which don't form a single word, makes a brute force attack impossible. With a password just 10 or 12 characters long, the number of possibilities, if you don't have a dictionary to work from, is so huge that it would take a lifetime, literally, for a brute force attack to be completed.

Question: Why do some downloads not show file size and / or ETAs?
Answer: When you make an HTTP connection, there are a bunch of pieces of metadata that are sent before the data.  One of those is Content-Length, which tells your client how long the data portion is going to be.  If you don't see a file size in a download, it means the server didn't send a Content-Length header, so your client has no idea how much data is going to come, and it just needs to continue receiving data until the server stops sending it.

Question: How do coffee machines (like a Keurig) super heat water in 10 seconds?
Answer: a thin layer of water heats up very quickly. Take a wet sponge, put it in the microwave for 10 seconds, it will be extremely hot. A cup of water wouldn't be warm in 10 seconds.

Question: how to eat healthy
Answer: Eat food.



Not too much.

Mostly plants.

-*Michael Pollan*

Question: When you boil water, where does the air that fills the bubbles come from?
Answer: "Boiling" is the process of water becoming steam. The "air" in those bubbles is water turning into its gaseous form from its liquid form.

Question: ... If yogurt is made with a starter of a small bit of yogurt, how was the first yogurt ever created?
Answer: They were not created, they were captured and bred from wild strains of bacteria. You could start the same sort of thing today, but your quality would be hit or miss (and the misses would be nasty).

Question: What causes something to have a smell?
Answer: Molecules from it break off and float around in the air.  Your nose picks them up, and your olfactory center "reads" them.  Yes this means exactly what you think it means, when you smell poo.

Question: I'm British. How could Greece defaulting on its loan repayment and leaving the eurozone affect me, the rest of the EU and the global economy?
Answer: For one thing, some of that debt is owed to UK banks and institutions.  They will have to take a loss, which could mean everything to high interest rates to outright bank failures.

It will heard the economies of the EU in general, and those are some of the UK biggest trading partners.

One the other hand, the weakened euro might make the pound more attractive, which could boost the UK economy.

Question: S.A.D (Seasonal Affective Disorder)
Answer: Basically, not getting enough sun makes you depressed. That's why one of the ways to alleviate it is to use a light box.

Question: The difference between deductive and inductive reasoning.
Answer: Deductive starts from a broad premise and makes a narrow conclusion. Inductive starts from a narrow premise (edit: or many narrow examples/cases taken together) and makes a broad conclusion.

For example, "all Redditors are smart. You're a redditor. Therefore you're smart" is deductive. I started with knowledge about a large category, then placed you in that category to figure something out about you.

Inductive reasoning would be, "that Redditor is smart. This Redditor is smart. That other Redditor over there is smart. Therefore, most Redditors are probably smart." I started by looking at some examples and then made a conclusion about the category they're in or the rules they follow. 

If you want more "real life" type examples, then someone might use deductive reasoning to make a simple medical diagnosis. "People with X Disease have Y symptoms. You have Y symptoms. Therefore you might have X Disease." Inductive reasoning is used when we do studies with random sampling. "We found X result in this chunk of population. That chunk of population represents the whole. Therefore this discovery applies to the whole population."

Question: Why is it so difficult to fall asleep without a blanket even when you aren't cold?
Answer: People develop patterns for going to sleep.  When you lie down, put your head on a pillow and cover yourself with a blanket your body thinks "ok, it's time to go to sleep" because you've trained it to react that way.

You could just as easily train your body with a different set of criteria for sleep.

Question: Why are some major media outlets speculating a Ted Cruz presidential run, ignoring that he was born in Canada?
Answer: His father was a Cuban who moved to the US in the 1950s (and was probably a US citizen by the time Cruz was born in 1970), his mother was born in US. You don't have to be born in the US to be eligible.

Question: The way cops sometimes talk
Answer: That is the sort of language they might use in a formal report or when testifying in court. It's filtered through to every day use with the public in part, I think, because the words are carefully selected not to have improper connotations, though it does sound rather awkward.

Question: A few questions on house-buying stuff
Answer: Equity in something means how much of a stake you have in its ownership.  If you pay for the house in cash, then you own it, and you can borrow against it.  If you take out a loan to buy it, then you only own it conditionally (so long as you keep making your payments to the bank).  If you already have a mortgage on the house, then it will be harder to use it as collateral for a loan because you're already in debt on it.

Question: At what point do under the table bank deposits become suspicious?
Answer: The reporting limit is $10,000 but if you arrange multiple transactions that look like you should have done a single over $10,000 transaction you'll trip anti-money laundering law wires.  

For taxes, you should report *all* income earned in a period, regardless of source.

Question: How does ''Rule Against Perpetuities'' actually work?
Answer: **Background**: The Common Law Rule seeks to make sure that things get used. Why would you want a perfectly good car being held by a dead person? We have property laws to make the world more efficient not less efficient




Here enters the Common Law Rules Against Perpetuities. This is a rule, not written down in a law, but rather a set of practices the court follows (common law). This set of practices deals with giving property to people (most commonly when things are given in a will)



**What it deals with** When someone gives something to another person, they can put restrictions on it (eg you will get my house when I die). However, sometimes those restrictions can take a very long time to actually occur (you will get my house when man leaves the solar system). The common law rule against perpetuities tries to get people to avoid the second example





**Example** So, how does it stop people from making up ridiculous restrictions: by saying that you can only give something to someone if the event occurs within the lifetime of the relevant parties (say yourself and the person who is giving you that house) plus 21 years. If, the person who is giving you the house dies, and 21 years pass (without meeting the restriction that gives the house to you) then the house is no longer yours and goes back to the estate of the person who gave it to you.



**Modern Context** That said, in Canada at least, the rule against perpetuities has been modified by laws passed by the government in many jurisdictions such that it takes a "wait and see" approach. In the example I used that means they would just wait till you die and **then** the house would revert to the estate of the person who gave it to you.


**Nuances** There is a caveat here. All of these things are looking at one's interest in property. So for instance, property given to children from their parents is said to already said to be "burdened" with the interest of the child. Since the interest is there, the rule of perpetuities is done with. Another example is a marital relationship. Each partner already has a interest in the property even if they don't have outright possession (physical holding and use of the property) or ownership (title to the property). Again, rule of perpetuities is not as important because the interest is there.

**Conclusion** The rule against perpetuities is *not* against perpetual ownership, but rather *perpetual uncertainty.* It is not good that we don't know when someone is going to get a piece of property so the law creates boundaries. When there are boundaries then a piece of property can be used, people can bring order to their lives, and society is more stable

Question: Why in ancient times anything but a pure wife was rejected, but some men married widows?
Answer: Men didn't prefer virgins because they got to be the first.  It was about legacy.  Everything they had and were would be passed on to a son, and they wanted to make sure that boy really was his son.  

Marrying a virgin helped ensure this.  Not only could the husband be sure she was not pregnant with another man's child, but she had followed the norm of society, and could be expected to continue to do so when married.  Conversely, a woman known to have had sex out of marriage defied society, was considered a harlot who could not be trusted to remain faithful.

In this scheme, a widow is almost as good as a virgin.  She followed the rules and just had an unlucky break, so there was no reason to believe she would be any less faithful.  Also, widows often inherited their husband's property and were more wealthy than a young woman still living with her family.

Question: Why do people say county jail is worse than prison?
Answer: County is nothing but laying and sitting, in a lot of places. Small town? You're just in a cell in a courthouse with a few other guys, beds, and a tv. Prison has other shit to do. Library, classes, exercise and what have you.

Question: why do large amounts of prize money, (e.g. $100,000 from a game show or a lottery prize) get taxed so much?
Answer: Lottery winnings are taxed as ordinary income at the Federal level, and by most states.  The highest U.S. tax rate is 39.6%, and it's applied to any income over $418,401 for an individual.  So on a big jackpot, that's almost 40% right off the top.  Then of course your state gets to tax the income as well.

Question: That baby smell. Like on baby items in Toys R Us, what is it and why does it all smell the same?
Answer: It's made to smell like baby powder, which (fun fact) is rarely actually used on babies these days. But lots of diapers have that as their default scent, so babies still smell like it. 
The day my daughter was born, it blew my mind that she smelled just like the Cabbage Patch Kid I had when I was little. Then I realized it wasn't her, it was the hospital-issued Pampers she was wearing.

Question: How do zero gravity flights work and why do they make people sick?
Answer: What we call "zero gravity" in space isn't actually zero gravity.  Rather, it's a constant freefall around the earth.  Gravity is pulling the space station down, it's just also moving so fast sideways that you fall towards the earth without actually hitting it.  Everything in the station is moving together, so there is no relative motion between them (or at least, very little).  Farther out in space, you might be pulled by the gravity of a thing (like the sun), but everything around you is also being pulled with the same force so you move together.

So, yeah, Douglas Adams was right about the secret to flying.

In any case, zero G flights take you up really high, then plummet back down so you, the plane, the air in the plane, and everything else involved are all falling at the same rate.  This is basically what's going on in space, except that you're not going to miss the earth.  Instead, the plane pulls up safely, climbs back up again, and then noses back down again...

It makes you sick because your brain is very good at orienting up and down when you're standing on the ground.  Not so much when you're falling.  There is liquid in special semi-circular canals in your ears, and gravity pulls them down, which tells your brain which way is down, which by extension tells you which way your head is tilted.  If you're in freefall, you're going down just as fast as gravity is pulling the liquid in your ears down, which means your brain can't know which way is down (and which way is up).  This is *really* confusing for your brain.  Even more confusing is that if you're sitting in the plane, you don't have any good visual cues for up and down, either.

This makes you *sick* because many poisons have the effect of making you dizzy and upsetting your sense of balance.  Over time, we evolved to get violently nauseous when we're dizzy because thousands and millions of years ago, that *probably* meant you ate something poisonous and your best bet for survival was to throw it up before more was absorbed into your system.

Question: How do owners of non-profit organizations or people who are "experts" in really odd things make money? Are most of them just retired or do they get paid by someone to do these things?
Answer: Non-profits are still business that have expenses. Sometimes it is an organization that pays salaries and overhead expenses. What is leftover from however they produce income is what is provided to their charity or organization. 

As far as getting paid for odd jobs, that usually falls under the consultant category. Basically a company or individual seeks the advice of someone who specializes in a certain field or area. The most popular example would be something like website design where big companies can have an inhouse team, but small companies or non-profits, will contract someone to create their site... in which case the one time cost is significantly cheaper than a full time employee. 

But there are people who specialize in some weird stuff and their specialty is sometimes needed. For example, while in college I met an archaeologist student who specialized in analyzing dung (basically human waste), well that speciality landed him a consulting role for a book that won a Pultizer. 

Hope that helps

Question: What is on the papers that news anchors are continuously shuffling?
Answer: Newsreaders usually have a small screen under the camera. On that screen, the text they read out is shown. This screen is called a "teleprompter". But in case the prompter breaks, they have the same text with them on paper, so they can continue reading the news.

Question: What happens inside of your body when you overheat?
Answer: The heat messes with the functionality of your cells.


Different mechanisms within the body require that very specific heat range or they fail to function properly. As your core temp increases the biological functions are no longer I  their optimal zone so they start malfunctioning or stop malfunctioning.


Additional, especially with the brain temperatures too high can cause damage to certain portions. Buddy of mine was a corpsman and they had a severe heat casualty where his body temp was up over 106 degrees after 10 minutes in an ice bath. Actually damaged the portion of his brain responsible for regulating temperature and now he can even do mild exercise without overheating. Ruined his military career.

Question: How is headbutting someone effective? How do you hurt your opponent without hurting yourself?
Answer: You take the harder part of your head and aim for a softer part of theirs.

Question: Most fracking happens at over 1 to 2 miles under ground. What is the theory that explains how that water gets through 2 miles of bedrock to pollute my 150 foot well?
Answer: There is definitely the potential for fracking to pollute groundwater.

The truth is, we don't really know for sure exactly how much the underground geology is altered when they use fracking.  They inject an extraordinary amount of fluid into the ground under an extraordinary amount of pressure, fracturing the rock formations around the drilling site, which allows for easier extraction of natural gas and/or oil..

It's possible that these rock formations may have been separating oil or gas deposits from groundwater, and after the shale is fractured, these two may begin to mix, where they couldn't before.

Question: How do planes "break" the sound barrier?
Answer: The speed of sound is only about 780 miles per hour, and all you need to do to break the sound barrier is go faster than that. Most normal planes already go about 500~ mph, so boosting that up to 800~ isnt too hard

Question: If all nine Justices of the US Supreme Court have an equal say on the opinion of the SCOTUS on cases they accept to preside over, why is there a position for "Chief Justice"?
Answer: He would preside over an impeachment trial, in addition to give the oath of office to the president. He is the chief spokesperson for the SCOTUS, and appoints judges to judiciary comittees. He doesn't have that much more power than the other judges,l. First among equals.

He also makes more money.

Question: How can we sometimes see the moon during the day and at night within a 24 hour period?
Answer: When the sun, moon, and earth form a 90 degree angle (viewed from far above the North pole) the moon will be visible for part of the day and part of the night since it's only 6 hours ahead or behind the sun but still fairly well illuminated.

In that case the moon will rise around noon and set around midnight (or vice versa), making it visible during a portion of the day.

The moon will always rise in the east and set in the west just like the sun, only the position relative to the sun changes from our perspective.

The moon will never be visible for 24 hours straight unless you're very near the north or south pole.

Question: How can "The Interview" have an all persons fictitious disclaimer at the end, when it is clearly based on a real living person?
Answer: So the TL:NR is going to be "That line doesn't really do jack" here's why:

Like someone using music or audio without consent saying "Blahbity blah belongs to such and such, no claim to copyright is made" or some such gives you no legal protection in court should that person decide to sue you the same is going to be true in satire.

Being a public figure, Kim Jung Un, in the U.S., has little to no protection against satire, and even if he wanted to, he'd have to sue Sony,  et al in U.S. courts for damages, and that's not going to happen.

The litmus test, afaik, is simply "Would a reasonable person believe this to be actual events?"

Question: Why did Longswords give way to rapiers and sabres during the Renaissance?
Answer: This is a very basic explanation: The rapier is dated to the 16th-17th centuries, and the sabre was popularized in the 17th century as well - the late Renaissance. 

Concurrent with this was the popularization of gunpowder, and earlier, the popularization of the crossbow. These two weapons were very strong and efficient at countering basic medieval infantry, but vulnerable to attack. This led to the popularization of pike and halberd infantry defending arquebus or musket infantry formations with cavalry support, and a general disappearance of man-to-man combat that dominated medieval warfare. 

The rapier is a weapon of nobility, and intended for dueling or ceremonial usage - not for use in heavy combat. These weapons valued aesthetics and lightness over military efficacy. You would never see a knight or a man-at-arms take a rapier into battle. It was a "civilian" weapon, much how hunting rifles and military rifles differ today. 

The sabre was a cavalry weapon, and chosen for its ease of use in cavalry charges. The sabre's design makes it very efficient at slashing, which men on heavy horses charging toward other men would be doing, rather than longsword combat which was best done on foot. 

To summarize, the longsword was the weapon of choice for antiquated fighting styles, and did not have a role in the new armies of the late Renaissance. The rapier and the sabre did play a role, however, in their own niches. The longsword did not so much give way or be replaced as die out, with other combat styles replacing it. A similar question would be asking why cavalry gave way to tanks. 

TLDR: Gunpowder and pikes replaced longswords, not rapiers or sabres.

Question: Is a human virgin birth scientifically possible?
Answer: If a woman is a virgin until a penis enters her vagina, then yes, virgin births are possible. If a man were to ejaculate on her, it's possible that sperm cells could swim up the vaginal canal and make her pregnant.

Question: How does Piratebay still manage to be a live website?
Answer: This bully, Pirate von Bayinstein, goes to a school connected to yours. Every day at the joint lunchtime your two schools have together he steals the cookies your mom packed for you. This pisses you off, so you go to your teacher and tell on him. Unfortunately, while he may be breaking your school's rules, he is not breaking his own school's rules, and your teacher does not have the authority to punish him.


Your teacher is the US government, pirate von bayinstein is the pirate bay, and you are the MPAA/RIAA ect. TPB's servers are not in the US and are therefore not subject to our laws. The country where they are does not have any laws prohibiting what they do.

Question: Why does Anime have a bad stigma?
Answer: Hardcore fans argue otherwise, but the majority of anime *is* poorly-animated entertainment fodder marketed towards teenage boys. This is coming from someone who enjoys some anime series, but it's a medium that most Japanese natives look down on for this reason, too. Because anime is deemed a niche genre unto itself, even in its country of origin, *everything* (including shows that feature paedophilia, rape and so on) is tarred with the same brush.

There's also the weeaboo phenomenon: Westerners who get into anime are mind-blown at this myopic exposure to one of the world's most unique cultures, and rather than research the parts they would inevitably find disagreeable, they latch onto fictionalised Japan as some kind of utopia willing to let pudgy white kids commandeer their culture.

Question: What does it mean for a song to be well mastered/mixed?
Answer: So, there are 3 major steps in creating the sound of a record. 

1) Recording.  When you actually put a mic in front of a guitar (piano, singer, etc.) and capture some audio.  And/or when you synthesize some sounds directly. 

2) Mixing.  When you take all the recorded tracks (guitar, bass, drums, and vocals, for instance, will all be separate.) and put them together.  The goal is to get each individual part to sound good, and more importantly, for the entire thing to sound good all together.  "Good" is partly subjective, but a good mix will:

* Let you hear each part as clearly as the artist intended
* Nothing sounds out of place or "off" compared to other instruments
* No parts get "lost" or become hard to hear in the mix
* Overall volume is loud enough
* Overall sound is clean, i.e no unwanted distortion
* etc. 

A bad mix will have some instruments hard to hear, seem obviously too loud, or will have unpleasant tonal properties, i.e. they sound "sharp", or "woofy" or "muffled', etc.  Basically, any time you notice separate instruments as popping out of the song in a distracting, unintentional way, that's a bad mix.  Or if the vocals just sound oddly cheap and weird.  Etc. 

Mixing is also where you add EQ, Compression, reverb, and sometimes other artistic effects that change the sound.  However, the line between mixing and production is a bit blurry, as is the line between mixing and mastering.

Mixing is about 50% of what makes a record sound good, 40% is a good recording, and 10% is mastering. (my opinion.)

3) Mastering used to be, after they made the final mix, where someone would edit the audio so that it would play well on tape, CD, or vinyl record - it was a process specific to the medium and wasn't really artistic in nature.  For example: Vinyl requires a special mastering process because the disc physically can't handle too much bass.  They take some bass out at the mastering stage, and then the phono preamp puts it back when you play the record.  So the mastering engineer's job was basically just to apply that process, not to do anything fancy to the sound of the record. 

Edit: forgot this part: Mastering can also encompass making the entire record sound good as a whole.  So one song will have a similar character to the next.  If the various mixes all sound a little different then the mastering step (whoever does it) will involve bringing them all into line.  So if one song basically has more treble or bass than the next, they'll tweak it so they all sound like they came from the same record during mastering. 

These days mastering is also sometimes treated as a "final touch" on the mix where someone just tweaks things a bit and makes it sound extra-nice.  But it's really almost more like a final step in the mixing process, than a technical process now.  Since most music is distributed digitally, which has no technical requirements that would require audible changes to the mix, mastering engineers are more like "final polish".

Question: Theoretically, shouldn't a pyramid scheme work?
Answer: Pyramid schemes are 100% effective so long as the number of people joining exceeds the number of people who are already involved.  This works because you can use the joiners money to pay off the oldest members.

The problem is that the number of fools (while massive) is a finite number.  Eventually the scheme cannot maintain cash flow.

Question: How reaction wheels (gyroscopes) in spacecraft work? How do they produce force?
Answer: The simple answer is because of Newton's laws.  They actually aren't using any of the special properties of gyroscopes.  If you apply a force with an electric motor to a heavy disk, you are also applying an opposite force to the object the motor is mounted to.  Same thing if you apply a force using a set of brakes.

That opposite force is what you are really after when maneuvering a space craft.

Here's a video showing this in Earth gravity: _URL_0_


You should note also that it is possible to use these disks as gyroscopes in order to maneuver.  In that case, you most likely will want to use gyroscopic precession to apply force.  That's a property where applying force to a gyroscope to tilt its axis of spin will result in another force acting 90* around the gyroscopes axis of spin.  This is actually how helicopters control their orientation.  By tilting the blades of the rotors up **on one side of the helicopter**, they can produce a force that lifts or lowers **the front** of the rotor disk.

Question: How does radiation make you sick/kill you?
Answer: Radiation is made up of tiny particles.  These tiny particles are so small that they can fly right through your body without stopping, but occasionally, they smack into one of your cells.  Radiation particles are super-tiny, but so are cells, so sometimes, a particle can kill a cell.

Sometimes, there's a lot of particles, so a lot of cells die.  But in fact, that isn't usually what kills you.  What kills you is what happens next.

Your body notices that there's a bunch of dead cells, and it doesn't know why they're dead.  But it suspects a virus, because that's the usual culprit.  Your body is wrong, but it doesn't know that.  So your body sends in its virus-killers, the white blood cells.

Unfortunately, white blood cells have a hard time swimming through solid muscle.  So your body makes it easier for these white blood cells to get to the dead cells by pumping up the muscles with extra water.  That's called "inflammation."

Unfortunately, if too many cells died from the particles, the body goes overboard.  First, it pumps too much water into all your organs.  Your organs can't handle all the water and they start malfunctioning.  Then, at the same time, your body tells the white blood cells to get super-aggressive.  The white blood cells lose track of friend-vs-foe, and they start wrecking the place.

That's "acute radiation poisoning."

Question: Why is a baby not nine months old when its born?
Answer: Because it's called a "birth"day - we define your age as being measured by your date of birth.

We do that because it's easier to know for sure the day that the baby came out of the mom than the day that the sperm hit the egg.  Even with all our technology, there's no real 100% way to know "Oh yeah, this was fertilized on May 8th."  So we base our date on what we know, and everything works out about the same.

Question: File systems (NTFS, FAT, HPFS etc.) and differences between them.
Answer: Imagine you have a warehouse full of filing cabinets. Tons of them! You can store everything you want in there! As long as they are sheets of paper, of course.

Well, you'll need some way to know how to find stuff in there. If you just put your homework in one filing cabinet and then forget where it is, it would not be a very helpful filing cabinet!

So, you dedicate some of the filing cabinets right at the front for storing maps, or a gigantic index. This index says "Your homework is stored in this location", because you wrote that down when you put your homework away. This is called a File Allocation Table.

Another feature you'll want, right at the front where it's easy to find, is a list of what filing cabinets are not completely full. This helps you find where you should put your homework before you run out to the filing cabinet to put it away. This is called a free space map.

Another fun idea is to have a list of related pieces of homework that are easy to find. You'd put some note in your big master list, saying where to find information about this group of files. Then you'd go out to the filing cabinet where that information is stored, and that will point you to other files, or perhaps to notes about another group of related files. We will call this Directories.

Now, what if you have a big report, and it's too big for just one file cabinet? Well, you can just put a special note at the end of the first file cabinet pointing to the next file cabinet that has the rest of the report!  Your index at the front just needs to point to the beginning of your report, and your free space map needs to know about the entire report, but you can just keep following your notes to read your entire report.

Now, what happens if you get called to dinner while organizing your files? For example, you wrote down in your index that your homework is at one place, and you put it in the free space map, but you didn't actually have time to run out to the right filing cabinet and put it in there. If you were to completely forget about it, like most computers do when they get interrupted (powered off), then your homework would be lost forever, and attempts to find it by following your index would bring up nothing.

So, you could keep a Journal of what you are about to do. You'd write down at the front, saying "I'm going to keep this homework in this filing cabinet", and include a copy of the homework and everything in there. Then, you'd go out, fill in the index and the map, file the homework away, then cross off that item from your list. If you get interrupted like before, then you can just go back to your journal, see what things haven't been done yet, and then make sure they get done.

Now that you know the principles behind file systems, different filesystems have different features:

* FAT only supports the File Allocation Table and free space index idea.
* HPFS is like FAT, except that it adds some extra features that were missing in the original version of FAT, like longer filenames, more precise timestamps, and general efficiency increases.
* NTFS adds a journal on top, and fancy features like compression and encryption and extra notes about each file, including who should be allowed to look at them, enforceable by you.
* ZFS and BTRFS are the latest generation of file systems, and they include really advanced features such as the ability to automatically store across multiple harddrives, and to detect when files get corrupted and to pull a good copy from the other harddrive, and store previous copies of files whenever you change them.

Question: What does the CDC in America do?
Answer: As some examples:

CDC tracks the spread of diseases, looking for the source, transmission vector, and that sort of thing. 

CDC also maintains the ‘strategic national stockpile’ of medicine, which is basically something from an action move. They can get tons of medical products to basically anywhere in the US in 12 hours (and I mean tons in the literal sense). 

 >  These so-called push packages are warehoused in a dozen, classified, non-descript facilities under 24-hour, contractor armed guard protection. Geographically situated to allow rapid delivery anywhere in the Continental U.S., material will deploy by unmarked trucks and/or airplanes within 12 hours of the receipt of the request by CDC. The U.S. Marshal provides armed security from these federal sites to local destinations.

_URL_0_

How cool is that?

Question: why I get friction burns on my inner thighs when I walk too much, but sometimes I don't despite doing around the same amount of walking
Answer: It depends a lot on the pants/skirt/underwear you are wearing, and the heat and humidity (sweat seems to make the chaffing much worse).

Question: what in our brain makes the auto alarm clock go off?
Answer: This is an extremely complex part of biology.

The processes your body uses for internal time keeping is called the circadian rhythm.

Your circadian rhythm is affected by many different things such as hormone levels and balances within your brain, which in turn can be affected by external stimuli such as temperature and light.

These hormone levels are controlled by a part of your brain called the suprachiasmatic nucleus, located in the hypothalamus.  

At the very basic the suprachiasmatic nucleus is stimulated during the day time via a nerve pathway from the retina of your eye during exposure to light.  When it gets dark, this signal stops and the suprachiasmatic nucleus turns the pineal gland on; which starts to produce melatonin. The melatonin relaxes the body and causes you to start to feel tired.

In the morning, when it starts to get light again, the pineal gland is switched off and the levels of melatonin in your blood start to decrease again; causing you to become more alert.

Those are the basics anyway, how the body is able to determine time to an accurate enough level to wake you up within 5 minutes before your alarm goes off, I do not know. I'd be interested for someone to chip in with more detail. :)

Question: What is actually going on with the oil companies, and why do the prices keep dropping?
Answer: all of these answers contain somewhat true points, but something to point out -- no one 'sets' oil prices, not the oil exploration and production companies, not OPEC, not anyone except the market.  The two types of oil quoted when people talk about 'oil prices' are WTI (U.S. benchmark) and Brent Crude (North Sea, worldwide benchmark)...and these prices are set by futures contracts that are traded instruments.

In other words, the price of oil is determined in much the same way the price of a stock is determined, not like the price of a good/service is determined.  OPEC decided not to cut production (Saudi Arabia especially), which had the effect of driving prices down (supply/demand imbalance), but they do not actually decide what price they will be able to sell a barrel of oil.

Question: what antibodies and reagents are
Answer: An antibody is a protein produced by the body to combat disease. The antibodies will attach to the outside of a virus, coating it and making it inactive. A virus coated in antibodies can't infect other cells.

A reagent is chemical added to a mixture that allows a reaction to occur but is not consumed in the process.

Question: elders and heat
Answer: Babies and old people have a hard time regulating body temperature. Someone mentioned thinning skin, and that is totally a factor. Another is that, as people age, circulation cuts down a noticable bit. That will make a person colder, as it's the heat in the blood that warms your extremities. 

This is why they say "check on the elderly" on the news during heat waves.

Question: How does the extra printed money from quantitative easing get into circulation?
Answer: It's created electronically, and then used to buy bonds. Because those bonds are now owned, they can't be bought by the private investors anymore, so they have to go put their money other places instead.

Question: Why do most promotions say "Purchase Not Necessary"?
Answer: If a purchase is necessary to enter the game of chance the promotion is classified as a lottery. Some governments, such as the US and the UK, deem as illegal.

You should be able to get a piece for free by going to your local McDonalds and stating you'd like to enroll without a purchase. Your request must then legally be obliged, possibly with a postage paid form that you fill out and mail in and they will, in turn, will mail you a piece. I am not certain how frequently you can do this, but I believe it's once per day per household.

Question: Why do people call Fifty Shades of Gray porn?
Answer: It's an erotic novel, which is about as close to porn as you can get while still being a novel. From what I understand, it goes into great detail about the intimacy involved.

Question: How does hollywood accounting make a successful movie like Forrest Gump to be categorize as net loss, is it not true that box office - production office = profit?
Answer: Let's imagine that I'm making a film.

It costs me $100million to make the film.  And the film takes $300million at the box office. But of that $300million, the cinemas themselves keep $100million, so I get $200million. This sounds like $100million profit, right?

I'm going to pay the screenwriter 10% of the profit. So he stands to make $10million. Not bad.

But as well as spending $100million making the film, I also had to distribute the film to the cinemas. And arrange for it to be advertised. And I had to hire studios in which to film it.

I decided to hire myself to distribute the film. I charged myself $40million for that. And I charged myself $40million for my expertise in arranging the advertising, too. Add to the the $30million I charged myself to hire my own studios, and you can see that the total cost of making the film was $210million. Even though over half those costs go to me.

So why would I want to do that? Well, now there's no profit. And since the screenwriter's salary is a portion of the profit, I don't have to pay him anything at all! I've just saved myself $10million.

Question: Why is it that Reddit only displays some of my subreddits in the drop down at one time?
Answer: The maximum number of subreddits for the drop down list is 50.

Question: How and why did cannabis come to be illegal?
Answer: because of systemic political racism.    back in the 1930's, mexicans and blacks smoke weed.   white people didn't.   so weed was make illegal to have a reason to put mexicans and blacks in jail.

Question: How are aluminum tent poles so much stronger/springier today?
Answer: It might be the same as how it's done with aircraft wings. In a normal alloy the elements are evenly mixed throughout the structure. In some more modern high strength alloys you have certain regions that have a greater ration of one metal to another than other regions do. This can allow things such as increased flexibility or the same strength for less weight

Question: Why is female handwriting generally distinguishable from male handwriting?
Answer: Young girls fine motor skills tend to develop a few years earlier than young boys. This also coincides with schools teaching handwriting, ages 5-8. As a result girls can get a bit of a jumpstart on developing and perfecting their handwriting. 

If you want to throw socializations in also, it is usually stressed that girls should be neat and precise, while boys tend to be given a bit more leeway in messiness...."boys will be boys" excuse.

Question: Phishing
Answer: Phishing is when people make up clever ways to get you to tell them your info. One (fake) example: You're "You", and the person trying to phish is B.  

**B:** Hello person, my name is Mr. Bankerman! I am from the bank. We're doing a routine check. All you need to tell me is your PIN.  
**You:** Oh, yes, of course! Here it is: 9-9-9-9.  
**B:** Thank you! Congratulations on your banking and stuff.  

The person trying to phish now knows your PIN and you now leave thinking he was from your offical bank, _after all_, he was wearing a fancy suit and tie.  


In addition, you're  
1. Too lazy.  
2. Think it would be rude   
3. Just dont have the time  
4. So convinced that you didn't think about it  
to actually check if you're dealing with a legit person.

Question: Why does sperm and bleach smell basically the same?
Answer: If I remember my awkward Catholic school sex ed, the female reproductive canal is (very slightly) acidic. Therefore, the male ejaculate has to be slightly basic (alkaline) to counteract it.

Bleach is a strong alkaline, hence a somewhat similar smell.

Also, I think semen may contain an element of chlorine, we didn't get that far in class ;)

Question: How does the 'Stingray' work? Wouldn't you be able to hear interference on calls etc?
Answer: Your phone treats the Stingray as a local cell tower.  And the Stingray passes through all cell phone traffic.  It happens quick enough that any delay is not noticed.  No interference is generated.


If you are concerned about Stingrays in your neighborhood see:
  _URL_0_

Question: What stops a journalist from printing anything 'off the record'?
Answer: If you print something that was said to you in the course of performing your journalistic duties, you are basically betraying the trust of your source and burning that source. You do it once, you'd need some luck to be able to talk to anyone on the inside ever again.

Question: Why do I become even more angrier at the person who really hurt me when they try to be nice to me or offer something nice when I'm upset?
Answer: Human instinct is to not repeat a task that hurts you.  You have in some way opened up and allowed yourself to be hurt by this person.  They hurt you and your natural reaction is to want to not be hurt again so when they try to be nice your brain doesn't want to open back up to them and give them another opportunity to hurt you.  The easiest way to prevent yourself from opening back up is to be angry with them.  It is one of the strongest emotions and the most difficult to change through reasonable thinking which makes it the go to emotion for when you are upset with someone.

Question: what is the point of making medical students study all the subjects/all residential rotations?
Answer: I like /u/police-ical answer a bit more than my own. 

You need to have a basic understanding of how the body works and what can go wrong with it regardless of what field you go into. Without this knowledge, you can fuck up really badly. Let me give you a couplr examples  regarding psychiatry.

Say you have a patient coming into the hospital for a manic episode with psychosis and this patient is sent to the psych service for control. You may think he has bipolar disorder and typically you can give them haldol to control them but one of the things you need to do before giving haldol is the work up for hyperthyroidism. You need to be able to see the signs such as exopthalmos, tachycardia, pretibial myxedema, jitteriness and psychosis. If you miss this diagnosis you will be knocking out this patient over and over again without correction and could place the patient in danger of thyroid storm which could kill him.

Say you have a patient with schizophrenia and you want to prescribe risperidone, an antipsychotic medication. You don't want to do this if the patient is complaining of vision problems or gynecomastia or galactorrhea because the patient may have a prolactinoma (a tumor) in his brain. 

If you want to prescribe clozapine you need to be aware of the potentially deadly side effect of agranulocytosis which can disrupt a patients immune system. If a patient has certain immune problems then it may not be worth placing them on clozapine because you could cause fatal infections. But clozapine is also an amazing antipsychotic. This is a judgement call but you need familiarity with the various immune conditions a patient could have if you want to appropriately make this decision. 

I'm not even in the field of psychiatry but I know these things because if one of my patients were to come in on psychiatric meds or have psychiatric conditions, I'll need to take that into account with whatever I do. You could of course consult the hospital psychiatrist but you'll look like a fuckin retard (at least on these basic things). 

It's true that a lot you learn in college and med school isn't applicable in practice but you also gotta realize that knowledge is foundational. You can't skip a layer of knowledge otherwise you'll have gaps and prob won't be able to critically think. And truthfully, there is a certain amount of studying strength you need to make it through med school and if you can't make it through the various science courses you most likely won't have the determination and skill to complete med school.

Also, from a practicality standpoint there are hundreds of fields you can go into through med school. It wouldn't be financially reasonable to split them all into different groups. You could of course go through different routes to enter certain fields: become a psychologist if you like psych, become a crna if you like anesthesia.

Question: Why were ancient cities buried or abandoned if they continued to grow into modern cities?
Answer: Some cities have been around for thousands of years, and still are inhabited today. Rome or example or Istanbul. 

Many cities were abandoned because of things like:

1. Natural Disasters
2. Lack of/exhaustion of local resources
3. Economic/Trade shifts

Question: Why do we perceive our vision as a single frame when we have two eyes?
Answer: We have binocular vision, by using two eyes our brain receives to separate images with everything shifted slightly left or right. Your brain then takes the images and process them together into a single image, using the differences to give you depth perception and three dimensional vision.

For example I am sitting at my computer screen. If I close one eye, then quickly open and close the other my computer screen seems to shift, this is because it's close to me. If I look out the window at a tree down the street and do the same that jump is minimal or imperceptible. This tells me the tree is far away. 

Your brain is doing this in real time with the two images to constantly keep up our sense of depth.

Question: Why does semen turn hard when exposed to hot water?
Answer: The same reason eggs get more solid when they cook, I believe.

The heat causes some of the proteins to denature.

Proteins are kind of like balled-up organic strings. Since they are round, they easily bump past each other in a liquid. When they denature, they partially or completely unravel, and the loose ends get all tangled up with each other, creating a more solid structure.

Question: LI5: Why wont the US government legalize marijuana?
Answer: Legalizing marijuana is not a politically wise proposal to make. There are lots of reasons why this is so, but the core thing is that a politician would lose more votes from the minority that opposes marijuana than from the majority that supports it. As long as that is true, marijuana will not be legalized, no matter how strong the reasons are.

Question: Why did Tipper Gore get so much hate from the music industry and fans during 1985 for wanting parental guidelines on music?
Answer: People thought they wanted to ban/censor music because that's exactly what they wanted to do. And they did it successfully at the time with Body Count's song Cop Killer. They put so much pressure on the label that the album was pulled from the shelf and the song was eventually replaced with a song called Freedom of Speach.    
    
It wasn't just an emotional response to a perceived threat. It was a very literal threat against the freedom of expression.

Question: How is a SSN (Social Security Number) generated?
Answer: Area numbers - The first three numbers originally represented the state in which a person first applied for a social security card. Numbers started in the northeast and moved westward. This meant that people on the east coast had the lowest numbers and those on the west coast had the highest. Since 1972, the Social Security Administration (SSA) has assigned numbers and issued cards based on the ZIP code in the mailing address provided on the original application form. Since the applicant's mailing address doesn't have to be the same as his residence, his area number doesn't necessarily represent the state in which he resides. For many of us who received our SSNs as infants, the area number indicates the state we were born in. You can find out which area numbers go with each state here.

Group numbers - These two middle digits, which range from 01 through 99, are simply used to break all the SSNs with the same area number into smaller blocks to make administration easier. (The SSA says that, for administrative reasons, group numbers issued first consist of the odd numbers from 01 through 09, and then even numbers from 10 through 98, within each area number assigned to a state. After all the numbers in group 98 of a specific area have been issued, the even groups 02 through 08 are used, followed by odd groups 11 through 99.)

Serial numbers - Within each group designation, serial numbers -- the last four digits in an SSN -- run consecutively from 0001 through 9999.

Question: How is math like a language?
Answer: I guess this one's going to depend on your definition of "language"

One way of thinking about a [written] language is as a systematic manner of representing abstract concepts via symbols

For example, if I write the word "tree," you know that I'm referring to  [this](_URL_3_) and not [this](_URL_4_)

If I say "tall tree," then you know that I'm talking about [one of these](_URL_5_) and not [one of these](_URL_7_).

If I say "family tree," you might think of something like [this](_URL_2_)

There's nothing inherently special about the letters t, r, e, e, - they don't look like a tree at all (well, the t does, kind of), and yet when you combine them, they form a coherent thought. When you add on additional words, it modifies the thought and gives it more meaning. The reason that you think of a tree when you see the word tree is because it's generally accepted that when I write "tree," I'm referring to one of those big woody plants growing out of the ground.

Similarly, math is a system of symbols which convey *a lot* of meaning when arranged in a specific order, despite the fact that the symbols aren't inherently connected to the "mathematical object" we're describing.

For instance, if I write

r(t) =  < cos(t), sin(t), t > 

this probably means nothing to you, if you've never seen the notation before. However, a person familiar with vector functions would recognize this as a [parametric representation of a helix](_URL_0_) in  ℝ^(3), as opposed to, say, a [sphere](_URL_1_), or a [straight line](_URL_6_). 

There's nothing inherently helical about the collection of symbols used to describe it, but together, they very clearly describe to someone who knows the "language" the object in question - the helix in the picture. You could argue that this helix exists regardless of whether or not we have a language to describe it; you've got the picture, right there! There are also multiple ways to describe the helix, using a different collection of symbols.

Similarly, the more you know a language, the more you can handle abstract concepts in that language. The more mathematics you know, the more "fluent" you are with abstract mathematical concepts.

Question: How do trees survive winter?
Answer: They can store nutrients below ground mostly. Think of syrup, which all decidious trees in northern climates produce. The flow of syrup is the tree moving sugars from its lower storage organs to its leaf buds yo support the new growth. Also woody tissue with secondary cell walls are dead so they aren't really supporting as much living tissue as it seems.

Question: Why in construction, when they lay rebar, is it in a grid pattern?
Answer: Because grids are easy and the structural integrity gained from triangles would not outway the massive extra time investment.

Question: Why do Wind turbines have three blades?
Answer: According to [this]( _URL_0_ ), wind turbines are nearly as efficient with one blade. Adding blades barely increases efficiency and adds considerable cost, so the question is really "why have more than one?" And the answer presented is that three blades is the smallest number where the forces balance in a way that prevents destructive vibrations.

Now, why the farm-style ones have so many blades, I'm not sure. My guess is efficiency is not a concern, so it may have more to do with increasing durability. It's a small windmill so the cost isn't much greater to have more blades (and I think they're very simple metal blades), but it may be costly in manual effort to repair. So having many redundant blades may just let it last longer. It's also possible that the design *limits* speed since these irrigation mills should only operate at a maximum level of performance: pumping beyond that isn't a bonus, but could actually damage the irrigation system.

Edit: /u/DrScrubbington gives the real explanation for irrigation windmills below.

Question: Why does diarrhea make your anus burn.
Answer: Several factors contribute to the feeling of burning, ranging from the following depending on your particular situation:

* diarrhea poop is more acidic than normal poop. (Normal poop is often alkaline, but diarrhea moves quickly through your intestines without being properly "processed," leaving it more acidic.)
* reduced time in transit through your gut may also leave more digestive enzymes in diarrhea than regular poop
* increased water content in your poop means that the entire contents (food, bacteria, etc.) are more easily smeared onto the surfaces of your mucous membranes. Normal poop is more desiccated and thus doesn't spread all the food contents over your rectum and anus.
* The bacteria that live in your mid-gut may have been expelled more quickly than normal, meaning that the bacteria in diarrhea may be different than those in normal poop.
* There are many immune cells that hang out near the rectum (a soft mucous membrane), and tissue inflammation (being "red and puffy") is a common side effect of your immune cells detecting foreign substances. This doesn't happen as badly for regular poop because it is often more solid, and therefore less accessible. As described above, normal poop is also more alkaline, less digestive enzymes, and has normal bacteria in it.

The combination of all these things, combined with the need for more wiping is the primary reason why diarrhea burns.

Question: What is the purpose of hanging highly irradiated patient's limbs up in the air?
Answer: Not a scientifically backed explanation as such but it might be to do with minimizing contact with surfaces to reduce the pain the subject is in. Any sort of second degree burn or worse hurts when it has pressure applied.

Question: How is the melody encoded on a vinyl and how is it reproduced by a record player ?
Answer: Such is the genius of Thomas Edison.  It turns out sound waves are really pressure waves that exert force on your eardrums 'creating' sound.  Vinyl is a soft material which is sensitive to subtle changes in force.  Therefore to make a recording, an etching needle is placed on the vinyl and when sounds are made it moves the needle up and down according to the pressure exerted by the sound wave.  As a result it literally converts a pressure wave into a physical shape.

To play back, the opposite occurs.  You run a needle over the record and the needle moves a diaphragm back and forth converting the 'shape' of the sound wave back into an actual sound.

Question: Why can we multiply by 0 but not divide by 0.
Answer: Let's put it this way - you can't divide something into zero parts. You can divide it into one part, but not zero parts. That's an illogical question (what happens if you divide $10 in zero parts?) There's no answer. Here:

$0 x 12 months = I'll give you $0 every month for 12 months. How much money will you have after a year? $0.

$12 x 0 months = I'll give you $12 every month, but no months have occurred yet. How much money do you have? $0.

$0/12 months = You've made $0 in a year - how much did you make monthly? $0

$12/0 months = You've made $12 in the span of no time at all. How much money did you make monthly? Um...well...I didn't make money monthly. There's no way to calculate this, because there's no time on the scale.

Question: How did child rearing work before diapers?
Answer: As far as infants, cloth and linen were often used as diapers, this is shown in native tribes. Disposable diapers are relatively new. Many people still use cloth diapers as they tend to be better for an infants skin. Thorough cleaning was just very important.

Question: When naming a new royal, are there only certain names they are allowed to use or is it just assumed they'll use a previous royal name?
Answer: It comes down to custom and tradition.  For instance, with British royalty, they need to pick a British name.  Custom dictates they can't go with something like Barbara or Fleur.

Custom shows that typically they choose names to honor other family members or royalty.  That's how they chose Charlotte, Elizabeth, and Diana as the three names for the Princess.  You want something with historical significance and personal significance.

Question: Bullet proof cars
Answer: They aren't bullet proof, they're bullet resistant, depending on how much you want to spend, what kind of bullets you want to stop, and how many of them.

Typically run-flat tires are standard on those vehicles.

Question: According to the BBC: pilots used the aircrafts' sensors to confirm "no civilians were in the proximity of the targets" In the Syrian Bombings. How?
Answer: It basically means "We hit the designated target. The target was defined as hostile, therefore everybody there were enemies. If there were any civilians, we define them as enemies as well.".

In other words, they only know that the bombs hit as intended, they don't know who was there or if the intelligence that selected the target was correct.

Question: Why do dogs throw up when they're hungry?
Answer: I guess you have never been really hungry. Not an insult I just mean humans do the same thing its just we can just feed our selves or drink water or something to stop the hunger before it gets to that point. As a former homeless dude I have been that hungry you start to drool and it burns in your belly till you just got to let it out. hurts. it sucks.

Question: Why is the Holocaust remembered as such a tragedy, while the Japanese invasion of China (with similar casualties) is almost forgotten?
Answer: I live in China currently and it is a really big deal here. They will never forget.

Question: How did Enigma cracking machine know it cracked Enigma?
Answer: There was known plaintext it was trying to match against. I seem to remember they used weather reports which were broadcast each day in the morning, and always had the same initial letters.

Once you crack the settings for that one, you could then decode all the messages sent the same day (until they change the codes again the next day).

Question: What does it mean as Paul Halmos says in his Naive Set Theory that "nothing contains everything"
Answer: It simply means that there's no set that contains every possible element, and that we can't arbitrarily define any set we want.

Set theory defines objects called "sets", which are simply collections of elements. For a given set, every possible element either is or isn't in this set. So given a set and an element, we can ask whether the element is contained in the set. 

How do we define sets? Well, we can define X = "The set of all positive integers". So 1, 2 and 3 are members of that set, but -1, 1/2, "cat" and "air" aren't. We can take a set X and derive a new set from it. For example, we can say Y = "every number in X that is divisible by 3", and we get that set that contains 3, 6, 9 and so on. Sets can also be members of another set: for example, we can define X to be a set that contains the set {1,2} (that is, X contains one element, which is the set that contains 1  &  2).

The question is, can we arbitrarily define any set we want? The answer is no, because that causes a paradox.

"Nothing contains everything" says that we can't define a set that contains everything. That is, a set X such that for every element E, E is a member of X. The proof is similar to Russell's Paradox: we define a new set Y to be "every element in X that doesn't contain itself". Is Y a member of X? If it is, then it means that Y doesn't contains itself. But according to the definition of Y, it means that Y does contain itself - we got ourselves a contradiction. So that means Y isn't a member of X - which contradicts the assumption that X is a set that contains everything.

Question: Why can't you "uncook" something?
Answer: Most of what your asking is covering the difference between a physical change and a chemical change. :

_URL_2_
_URL_1_

In short a physical change would be melting ice or cutting up a stick of butter. It's different in form but essentially the same. 

Chemical changes alter the chemical composition of something so it's no longer what it was. 

Cooking often involves chemical changes . other times it's just physical. Pasta can be dried out again and re cooked but a steak cannot be made raw again due to the protien structure. This page shows you the changes that happen when you cook it 

_URL_0_

Question: Why do Americans always cheer when they hear their hometown/state?
Answer: Psychological tribalism. You associate with a group, so attention paid to that group can be seen as attention paid to you. You may not have strong association with your city/state, but what about your local/favorite sports team? If a comedian did a set on the same day a local team was playing, wouldn't he immediately get a positive reaction by positively acknowledging that team? Doing so breaks the ice and makes the audience more receptive to his jokes

Question: Why does building a robot like the mars rover cost so much money?
Answer: Are you talking about the Curiosity rover that is said to have cost $2.5 billion?

If so, some clarification might be warranted.

NASA spread the $2.5 billion figure over eight years. The money spent went into salaries of engineers, programmers, managers, and independent contractors in over twenty states across the country. And even some from out of country. 

Things like the cost of rocket to launch it to Mars are included in that total, too, which accounts for nearly a fifth of the amount alone.

If you you just divide the total cost by the number of years NASA has saved for it, you come out with about $312 million per year. This works about to approximately 1.8% of NASA’s yearly budget. That’s about $1 per year for every American.

When put into context of the federal budget, it's actually quite cheap.

Question: How does ticket scalping work?
Answer: You buy the tickets when they're available, and then you sell them to desperate people for a higher price than you bought them. It's a generally scummy thing to do because you're just jacking up the price for no reason.

Question: What is antimatter?
Answer: Just like matter is made of particles, antimatter is made of (surprise) antiparticles. Antiparticles have the same properties as their "normal" counterparts, but they have opposite charge. The antiparticle of the electron is the positron, the antiparticle of the proton is the antiproton, and the antiparticle of the neutron is the neutron itself, because its charge is 0.

Antiprotons and positrons can combine to form atoms and molecules just like regular ones, but for example they react differently to electromagnetic fields and some scientists are pondering over the question of "does antimatter fall up or down?".

We can create antimatter, because when a high energy photon travels through space, for example, it has a chance of splitting up into a pair of particles: one particles and its antiparticle. We can even create a positronium atom, which is an electron orbiting a positron. The only problem is, all of these things annihilate when they come in contact with matter and since matter is very common, especially in a particle accelerator (in which is litterally everywhere), antimatter we can create only survives a tiny fraction of a second.

EDIT: Thanks to everyone that kindly made me notice the neutron isn't its antiparticle. It was something I thought and was told but I did never do enough research to confirm it. I apologize.

Question: What's the difference between Meth and Adderall?
Answer: [Aderall](_URL_0_) is a mix of different types of amphetamine salts and methamphetamine is another type of amphetamine (not present in Aderall).

There is a difference in their chemical structure and how fast they work. What's in Aderall works a *lot* slower than methamphetamine which has a way of fastly working its way past the blood-brain barrier (the fluids in your brain isn't directly connected to your blood system so "stuff" that needs to get in has to past this "barrier").

Question: Why can't we use physical tests to detect mental illness?
Answer: We don't understand the brain nearly as well as we understand the circulatory system, though for some mental illnesses we are starting to be able to detect them with brain imaging technology. For instance, Schizophrenia.

_URL_0_

Question: What makes the japanese market so different from the western one? Why japan has all these special edition albums, games, mangas, electronics, gadgets that are never released elsewhere?
Answer: High import taxes force them to produce their own version for domestic market only. Plus, despite their efforts, they're fairly English illiterate so internationalized marketing doesn't work quite well there and needs to be localized heavily. Being a cultural galapagos also means they have unique tastes and demands unlike the western world which is more or less homogenized either being America-centric or Euro-centric.

Question: What makes debts you owe be removed / halved in what you originally owe from Debt Collectors?
Answer: Often times the original company you owe the money to, sells the debt for less than the original and writes it off as a business loss. For some businesses this is a better choice then spending money trying to collect the debt from you. The company that buys it will try and get you to pay them more than what they paid for it, but that is often  less than the original debt. 

Other times, if the company doesn't active try to collect the debt for a certain period of time, the debt is cancelled. You no longer owe the money to the company. However, be careful, because the federal government considers cancelled debt as income and will tax you on it.

Question: What are trust funds and how do they work?
Answer: Basically money that someone invests for some specific purpose or persons. 

A rich dude will create a trust for his 3 kids, or a scholarship fund, or charity or something... the trust will then have rules on how it may be invested, and how much will be paid out, when and to who. 

Many trust funds are set up to avoid taxes, and put money in limbo basically. If you just gave your daughter $50 million, the taxes are higher than if you made a trust and it paid her an allowance. 

For many trusts one of the ideas is to pay out the earnings, or a portion of them, without ever depleting the trust so that it continues on indefinitely benefiting people or some charity for a long time.

Question: Why do certain "noises" (i.e., a fingernail scratching a chalkboard) irritate us so much?
Answer: Certain sounds at particular frequencies are very unpleasant to the human ear, the sound of that falls into that range. However it isn't something that effects all humans the same, some tolerate the sound more so than others or are not bothered by it at all. I fall into the category of not being bothered by it at all, the sound of folding paper however, that drives me mad.

Question: What would happen if the US Government payed off all its debt?
Answer: We would accrue new debt as we continue to borrow money to fund large scale efforts, unless the magical source of money that allowed us to pay off all our debt also funded that.

Nations aren't in debt because they can't pay their bills (at least, not always), they're in debt because it is useful to get a large sum of money now and be able to pay it off gradually, as opposed to taking a huge chunk of money out of the budget all at once. I need a car, but I also like to eat and have a place to live and drive my car to and from, so I take out a loan, rather than sinking all my money into the car, and then pay the loan back gradually while I eat and own a house.

Question: What does it mean to verify permissions in a UNIX system and, if you are a grandma on a Mac, do you need to repair them?
Answer: Each file and folder in a UNIX system has a list of permissions, which are a list of rules describing "who is allowed to do what to this file".  

For example, Bobby can read, modify, or delete a particular file but Charlie can only read it (won't be allowed to modify or delete it) and Danny can't even read the file.

Repairing permissions on a Mac tells the computer to scan through every file and folder looking for any odd permission settings.  For example, if no users are allowed to read a file then that's strange (you'd expect at LEAST one user to be able to or else the file is useless).  Or, if a file says that Frankie is allowed to edit the file but there is no users named Frankie, and so on.

Question: What is the purpose of electric motion detecting hand towel dispensers in public restrooms when we have cheap, mechanical, spring loaded dispensers which have no circuitry and always work?
Answer: It's a hygiene thing too, I think. It means you don't have to touch the handle on the towel dispenser, which might conceivably be contaminated with someone else's fecal matter.

Question: Why are programs allowed to use 100% CPU ?
Answer: We bought the CPU to be used, not to sit idle.  If one program wants all of the CPU and no other programs want any, why would the program that wants it not be given it?

The CPU doesn't have inertia.  If someone else comes along and asks for CPU, it can be taken away from the first process in a tiny fraction of a second.

Question: why do bombs and missiles explode in the air above their target? Instead of hitting the ground/target and exploding?
Answer: In an impact detonation (bomb that explodes when it hits something), that "something" absorbs most of the force of the impact. If it is the ground, a majority of that force is transferred into the ground and some of it is reflected back up into the air (think of a ball bouncing off the ground, it bounces back in the air at a very similar angle that it impacted the ground). For harder targets where you want to concentrate the force in a smaller area, this is the technique you want to use.  

In an air burst bomb (using either a timed fuse or a radar proximity fuse) the shockwave travels toward the ground, is reflected by the ground, similarly to the ball theory and meets with more shockwave. The meeting of this ground reflected shockwave and the Air shockwave change the direction of travel of both and causes them to run parallel with the ground. This amplifies and shockwave and pushes it outward, away from the central point of detonation with more force. 

Fragmentation damage is an effect in both cases. In impact detonation the frag is reflected upward and out from the ground (since it impacted the ground first) and is slowed somewhat by the contact with the ground. This is the desired effect for harder targets.  In an air burst the frag pattern is directed toward the ground with more force (initially) and then pushed outward by the outward directed shockwave. This is more desired for softer targets (vehicles, radars, personnel). 

Alternatively in a delay burst, the weapon impacts first and then a set time delay is executed prior to fuse actuation. This allows the velocity of the weapon to penetrate harder targets so that it may detonate inside the target. This is useful for concrete, buildings (sometimes depending on construction), armored targets (depending on the weapon), tunnels or bunkers. 

There are caveats to each of these situations.

Question: Is there an "absolute hot", the hottest temperature possible, or can temperature be infinitely hotter?
Answer: This is just conjecture, but as I understand, heat is a measure of the speed at which electrons are orbiting the nucleus of a given atom.

0 kelvin and this orbit stops entirely.

I hypothesize that, since as you dump more and more energy into these electrons they move faster, they'd eventually begin to approach the speed of light and it becomes more and more ineffective to apply more energy. When the speed of the electrons is *c*, it will take infinite energy to make them move any faster. And there's you hard limit on temperature.

As far a what temperature this would be in degrees, there's probably some conversion for an electrons feet per second to degrees fahrenheit.

Question: Besides cannabis, are there any objects that naturally contain THC?
Answer: Almost all living multicellular organisms produce THC as a part of the regulation of the metabolism. THC receptors are also present in all of these organisms. Species as different as the simple nematode and the mighty redwood tree all have THC receptors, and produce THC as part of their normal metabolic cycle. This is why organisms can benefit from THC therapy. Because they already have THC receptors, and the THC provided in addition to their existing levels can have thereputic effects.

Question: Why do people puke when they over-exert themselves?
Answer: It's a derivative of the flight-or-fight response. When you are exercising your sympathetic nervous system starts to take over the same if you were really scared. This makes sense from an evolutionary stand point, any time you would have been running you would have been in danger. The sympathetic system diverts energy away from your digestive system and towards your muscles and heart. You don't want a full belly with a stalled digestive system when you're fleeing from a jaguar so you toss your lunch and that allows you to run faster. Since it's the same system that is in control when you exercise, you get the same response.

Question: The Russian military's current capabilities
Answer: In terms of what?  They are (arguably) the second most powerful nation on earth.  WAY behind the US of course but still significantly powerful. 

The real trouble is that they are fully geared up to fight wars of 40 years ago.. They have lots of tanks, aircraft and ships but not much by way of stealth abilities (more than other nations, but nothing like the US).

If you want a more detailed list, check out this website _URL_0_

But none of that includes nuclear abilities.  Russia has missiles that can hit any place on the globe.  Russia has subs that carry nuclear ICBMs and can be launched from anywhere on the globe.  Once a nation gets to that point, it really does not matter what their other military abilities are.  They have the power to destroy the world if they want, so we don't engage in open warfare with them.

Question: How do G force suits work?
Answer: The compress the body in an attempt to keep the blood from leaving your head, which is what causes blackouts at high Gs.

Question: How does fostering kids work?
Answer: You sign up. Social services does some routine investigations to qualify or disqualify you. Then then place a child with you...and you get a monthly stipend of $600-800/mo plus some amount of foodstamps to feed the kid.  
Theres a caseworker assigned to you that has waaay too many foster kids to pay proper attention to each case. When theres a complaint or problem they respond and evaluate whether there is an actionable issue or not.   
Abuse happens sure. BUT most foster parents take good care of the kids they foster. Most kids in foster care are a lot better off than they would be in group homes. Like anything you hear more about the failures and flaws than the success stories.

Question: The different "grades" of gas, and how much it really matters.
Answer: In one part of how a car engine works, a piston squeezes a mixture of gasoline and air, then a spark plug sets it on fire at a precise time.

But squeezing that mixture makes it hot, and sometimes it can make it *so* hot that it catches fire before the right time. This can push the engine backward, hurts your gas mileage, and wears out the engine too soon. It's called knocking, or engine knock. It's most common in sports cars, where, to get a little bit more power when the engine is working right, it's designed to squeeze the gasoline-air mixture more tightly than other engines do.

Now, gasoline is made up mainly of two kinds of stuff: hexane and octane. Fuels with more octane can get squeezed into less space, at higher temperatures, before they catch fire. So if you have a car with a **high compression ratio** (that means a car that squeezes the gasoline-air mixture more than usual), you need to use a high-octane gasoline, or else your engine might knock, which could hurt the engine.

If you don't have a car with a high compression ratio, you probably don't need to worry about engine knock: your engine doesn't squeeze hard enough for the difference to be important. So you can use lower-octane gasoline.

Question: Why did they need to close the airspace over Sydney because of the current hostage situation?
Answer: It happens all the time during critical incidents.  Usually the goal is to keep media aircraft back so they do not interfere with law enforcement operations.

Question: What are the potential health risks to humans of pervasive plastic contamination?
Answer: Plastic filaments and particles can interact with receptors on the outside of cells, and can freely enter cells by moving through the fatty cell membrane to disrupt processes inside the cell. The downstream effects are poorly understood, and could be anything from nothing, to interfering with hormone cycles and metabolism, to causing cell death, or to affecting DNA replication and repair, depending on the type and size of the plastic particle. Here's an NIH article on how they (and other substances like drugs) can affect your hormones (endocrine system): _URL_0_

Question: Why is stock only traded 6hrs/day, 30hrs/week?
Answer: In general, limited hours help the market remain stable.

Question: do workout supplements (such as pre-workout that claims to increase the ability of your blood to deliver oxygen to muscles) actually work, and if so what actually happens to your body?
Answer: Somewhat. They work by increasing levels of nitric oxide in the body, which regulates blood pressure by relaxing the blood vessels. You can't supplement nitric oxide directly, but two amino acids, L-arginine and L-citrulline, cause the body to produce it. While L-arginine is a popular product, it is poorly absorbed by the body, so L-citrulline is the better choice of the two.

Question: What causes stains to become permanent?
Answer: Color compounds are usually fairly large molecules, and the fabrics in your clothes are made of even larger polymer chains. Big molecules like this can interact [non-covalently](_URL_0_) (so no chemical bonds, just atoms sticking to each other through Van der Waals forces, charge groups, and other weak forces). Non-covalent interactions can add up to be pretty strong, but also are reversible. Detergent in particular is very good and inserting itself between the molecules and removing their attraction for each other. But the longer you let the staining molecules sit around and the hotter you get them, the better the chances are that the colored compounds covalently bond them to the fabric. At that point, there isn't anything that can break the bond that wouldn't also break the bonds of the fabric in general.

Question: If sound is typically vibration travelling through air, how can I hear someone through a wall.
Answer: Wall vibrates too, but less than air, then transers the vibrations to air around you

Edit: grammar

Question: Why does the Violin (or any of it's kind) sounds so compressed when played inside a car, and sounds normal when played in any room?
Answer: Most instruments, really anything that makes sound will be like that, even clapping your hands. It's all about acoustics, basically how the sound bounces off the walls and back to you. An orchestra sounds gorgeous in a large and well-designed room because the sound bounces off the walls again and again, surrounding you and lingering in an echo. In a smaller room with "softer" walls, the sound is cut off quicker because you're not hearing it from much other than the source. Try clapping and yelling in a car or a band practice room at a school vs a really big room, especially with stone walls, and listen for the same difference.

Question: What was building 7? Why do conspiracy theorists use it as an example? what is the "real explanation" behind its collapse? What do the theorists think happened?
Answer: The World Trade Center was a complex of seven buildings. The twin towers were 1 WTC and 2 WTC. Four other buildings were on the same block, and 7 WTC was across the street.

While only the twin towers were struck by planes, their collapse caused substantial, irreperable damage to all the other buildings part of the WTC, and other neighboring buildings as well. 3 WTC immediately collapsed from the twin towers essentially falling on it. Same thing happened to a church across the street. Debris that struck 7 WTC didn't cause it to collapse immediately, but started fires that weakened the building, causing it to collapse later that day.

Conspiracy theorists think that, because the building was across the street from the WTC and its collapse wasn't *directly* caused by the collapse of the twin towers, that its collapse must have been a controlled demolition. They add to this that the building had offices of the SEC and Secret Service, theorizing that someone wanted to set back investigations into potential financial wrongdoing.

Question: How come my face becomes numb after eating a persimmon?
Answer: This is not typical. Is it possible you are allergic?

Question: Why does bacon sometimes get that green shimmer?
Answer: Are you talking the same [shimmering color sometimes seen on roast beef?](_URL_0_)

Question: Why do we pronounce "colonel" as "curnel/kernal?"
Answer: The same reason we in Britain pronounce "Lieutenant" as "Leftenant". That's the way the word was said when we stole it off the French.

Question: Karl Marx's Manifesto
Answer: The communist manifesto was a short pamphlet authored by Marx and his colleague Friedrich Engels. It briefly summarized key concepts of communism, outlined the differences between communism and socialism, and pointed out the flaws with contemporary capitalist societies.

The most important ideas put forth by the manifesto were the concepts of the proletariat (working class) struggling against the bourgeois (ruling class), and this struggle would most likely result in socialist revolution, and eventually communist revolution. The pamphlet also put forth a list of ideological "demands", in essence, suggestions for how societies could adapt more communist and socialist policy.

While the communist manifesto has earned a reputation as Marx's most prolific document, it was by no means his most exhaustive and those seeking further education on the ideals of communism and socialism should read his other works.

Question: Why is it that people from the United States call themselves American when they aren't the only country located on the north and south continents?
Answer: Seriously? Nobody knows?

**For historical reasons**.  The same way British people still call themselves English, Scottish, Welsh and Irish despite living in a single country for ages.

United States declared its independence in 1776 as 13 independent *American States* (the name used) and passed the constitution in 1787. At that time there was British land to the north instead of Canada and Spanish land to the south and west instead of Mexico. Mexico won its independence in [1821](_URL_2_) but they spoke Spanish and their "native" land  was not "America" but "Mexico".  Canada has been a whole bunch of British colonies and unorganized territories until 1870s when [Canadian Confederation was created](_URL_1_). And here are the historical roots for the name of [Canada](_URL_0_). You have to understand that the colonies worked as extension of the country. France in the colonial age for example consisted of the original country in Europe and Algeria and Morocco in North Africa. If you went to Canada you were still in Britain (British Empire) and the local name for the region was just like moving from Essex to Lancastershire. Similarly Spain - you can call the land what you want but the name of the *country* over there is still "Spain".

 At the same time the colonists in New England and other British colonies in America were thinking about the idea of being somewhat separate for a couple of decades. The American revolution really started somewhere around 1750s or 1760s and only culminated in 1776 and through that time one of  the most important notions was that while they might refer to "Rights of Englishmen" (because of legal traditions) they did not consider themselves as "British"  but "American".

So by the time people started really thinking that it is weird that citizens of a *country*  in just one of the American continents are calling themselves "American" it became part of the habit and language. By the way it really happened with the turn of the XIX and XX century when there was no more free territory (the wild west) to go to and the distinction between the North and the South ( which was fairly obivious either before the war and for a couple of decades into the reconstruction) vanished.

It is only now that there are plenty of countries on both continents that it seems to be a weird thing.

Question: How do babies learn to talk? What process does their brain go through?
Answer: There are different perspectives and competing theories on this, and each has it's own level of detail. Here's what I think, but it's probably not the accepted version, and it's not really ELi5!

The brain is a **pattern matcher**. It goes through data and isolates *similarities* from differences to create saved patterns. These patterns are used to identify what things are and to create further patterns. Patterns start simple, but eventually become complex chains of "commonalities", and ideas, memories and the words of language.

First, the baby has sensations of sound amongst silence. Initially, all the sensations of sound are meaningless, but the baby learns to distinguish when there is sound versus when there is not.

Then the baby learns to differentiate different types, or characteristics of sounds - high, low, loud, soft, pure tones, harsh tones, staccato sounds, rising sounds, falling sounds - perhaps thousands or more characterisics.

And then baby "associates" (creates larger *united* patterns) those characterisics of sounds with *previous or concurrent or resulting events*: Such as: with *feelings*, firstly just pain or pleasure and later feelings such as surprise, fear, happiness, comfort, joy, indifference, important, unimportant etc. Such as: with *visual* objects/events, you, people, a moving chair, a dog etc. Such as: *smell and taste* events etc. And alot more.

At some point, the gabble of speech has been differentiated from all non-speech sounds, as being human made, as being producable by the baby, as having an effect on people's actions.  

This is further differentiated into smaller units of similarity - angry speech, comforting speech, loving speech, fearful speech.    

At this stage, a mum can say "I love you I love you I love you!" or "googoogaagaa buby wuby" *in the same voice/tone* and the baby will understand the *meaning* and implication of the tones to be the same, even if the individual words are still meaningless.    

Eventually, patterns are found in phrases and sound shapes and sllyables, in other people's voices and in the babies own produced sounds and results of those sounds. The baby isolates individual words and their meanings.   

I believe there is a stage now where the baby understands what words and sentences mean by listening only - but can't yet physically produce the right sounds to speak back. I've heard that some parents, at this stage, teach the baby hand-sign language (!) to communicate, until he/she can speak!

When speech is being produced, you'll notice all the funny "mistakes" the kid makes in grammar and pronunciation as he/she tries to put new ideas together for the first time. Some of these "mistakes" may make a lot of logical sense according to the *underlying* patterns the kid has already aquired - and often it is the illogical customs and inconsistent exceptions of English that's the problem!    

**TLDR:** Spoken Words are but leaves on a Tree with twigs and branches, and trunks and roots, that go down deep.

Question: Why am I "Innocent until proven guilty in a court of law", but only found "not guilty" and not "innocent"?
Answer: You (and your lawyer) are under no obligation to prove your innocence, nor your "not-guilty mess."  The onus (burden) is on the prosecution to prove that you are guilty, and your job is to refute their accusations and show, if possible, that they can't be true.

That's what presumption of innocence means.  If nobody shows that you're guilty, then there's no reason to believe guilt; you're "not guilty."  The prosecution has to prove you are guilty well enough that you can't poke holes in their accusations, otherwise we default to our presumption.

Question: Why is reading good for the brain?
Answer: I can think of two important reasons. First reading and comprehension increases vocabulary and your understanding of language. Second is what you learn from the material. Even fiction can train your brain to make connections or think in ways that you hadn't before.

Question: What is revisionist history and why is it bad?
Answer: Revisionist history is when somebody has an idea he or she wants to support and then goes back and reinterprets historical events to create that support, sometimes interpreting events to mean the opposite of what an objective analysis would conclude.

Question: Why do we call Earths moon "The Moon", when every other moon in the solar system have their own separate name?
Answer: We started calling it the moon before we had discovered what a moon really was, or that other planets had their own moons.

Question: Why do countries have different voltage for appliances ?
Answer: First, I believe you mistyped and meant 120/240v in the US.

There is a trade-off between voltage and power lost due to resistance. Very few things in your house use even 120v, so why so much voltage?

First you need to know some simple concepts about electricity. For a certain amount of power running through a wire, you can increase the current by decreasing the voltage and vice vera, according to this formula:

Power= Voltage * Current

So if I have a cable with 120v at 2 amps of current, and another line with 240v at 1 amp, those two cables are carrying the same amount of electricity. It's like two streams, one is twice as wide as the other, but the thinner one is twice as fast.


So why choose one over the other? This brings us to our last electrical concept: The power lost to heat from the resistance of the wire we use is based on the CURRENT only. The more current, the more energy lost to heat caused by the resistance of the conductor.

Now the reason we use high-power lines is clear, transporting electricity at high voltages and stepping the voltage down close to where it is used is more efficient.

In the end the precise voltages you use are arbitrary, as Mr. JelloTree said, but once you commit, you can bet a power network isn't going to want to change, as there are massive economies of scale in keeping components standard.

Question: Why and how is the middle east in such chaos in the past decades?
Answer: There are a lot of different reasons and a lot of different factors for the state of basically anything. You can't really boil it down to one thing, but it's worth trying I guess. History and all its political, cultural, geographical, and economic factors play a role in the way things are today. 

I'm not a MENA history scholar or anything, but I'm fairly well-read because I like it and my BA involved a lot of classes on Islam and the Middle East. I'll just put down a couple bullets point with things I think you should look at:

* The break-up of the Ottoman Empire demolished government systems that held much of the region together. For centuries, the Ottoman Empire was the main political body holding most Arab countries together. Life certainly wasn't perfect for religious and ethnic non-Turks during this time, but there was a unified governing system, some autonomy on the local level, and relative stability. After WWI, the Allies, particularly Britain and France divided the Empire's territories among themselves and did away with the previous governing structures. 

* Britain and France divided the Middle East into made-up states that paid no attention to ethnic or religious boundaries. Honestly, no one knows what would have happened otherwise, but a lot of countries (Iraq and Syria are perfect examples) don't have the ethnic/religious unity that they have in a lot of European nation-states.

* Decolonization in the 2nd half of the 20th Century left weak, illiberal, and corrupt states with little legitimacy. 

* During the Cold War, the US and its allies and the USSR and its allies flooded the region with weapons and play allowed kinds of political games to exert influence. Popular movements and dictators tried all sorts of ideologies - secular-authoritarian-pan-Arab dictators came to power. 

* In the 1970s and 1980s, Islamism as a modern political ideology jumped onto the scene in Shia Iran and found its Sunni manifestations in different movements (like the Muslim brotherhood) in most Arab countries. So the scene's been set for brutal authoritarian, but secular dictators versus Islamist movements, both violent and not-so. 

* Israel... There's a lot to write about, lots of competing narratives, but you cannot displace hundreds of thousands of people, implement an entirely new form of government, and not destabilize the region. Add Arab-nationalism and Muslim identity politics, and it's a big issue everywhere. 

* The 2003 invasion of Iraq basically opened the can of worms we're seeing now in Iraq and Syria. 

Sorry my explanations got shorter and shorter. I'm a bit tired of typing. *A Peace to End All Peace* is a great account of the break up of the Ottoman Empire and how much outside meddling contributed to the destabilization of the Middle East. William Easterly has a great chapter about it in his book called *White Man's Burden* as well. Vali Nasr writes a lot of cool things about the region. James L. Gelvin as well. I'm mentioning the authors because you can find accessible interviews and stuff on Youtube.

Question: Why is it my jaw (below the ear) hurts after I blow up a balloon that's tough to inflate?
Answer: The eustachian tube is what is hurting; it was stretched by the air pressure used to inflate the balloon, and is sore.

 The reason it feels like it is coming from your jaw below the ear, is a phenomenon called *referred pain*. The same nerve branch that brings pain signals to your brain from your jaw, there, is the same branch that brings pain signals from your eustachian tube. The eustachian tube is so rarely in pain that the brain never learned to differentiate between the two sources, and so interprets pain from it, as being pain from your jaw instead.

Referred pain happens often, usually in cases of sinus pain, toothaches, and abdominal pain. It can also happen in heart attacks, where the person experiencing the heart attack feels pain in their left arm instead of their chest.

Question: How are people identified by their dental records?
Answer: Everyone's teeth and jaws are different, like everyone has a different fingerprint. And dental work like fillings, caps, etc, and their placement make dental structures even more unique. 

I have taken college courses in basic forensic techniques, but I'm not a forensic scientist, so I  can't tell you *exactly* how someone is identified using this method. I believe it involves matching their jaws and teeth to the most recent dental x-rays available. 

In your story, I would imagine that they have records of who was on the train, and who survived. This narrows down the list of people that could possibly be left. Even if only a partial match was possible using dental records, they'd have a relatively small number of records to check against and no one else's teeth in that small group of possible people would match. It would take a ridiculous sample size for there to be the possibility of two close matches.

Question: How did Seth Bling manage this code injection in Super Mario World?
Answer: Start with: Computers are (to oversimplify) really complicated calculators.  This also goes for video game consoles (and their emulators)

Video games (like all programs) are ultimately really complicated calculations.

In order to reduce the load on a computer's ability to perform the "calculations" (aka reduce lag when playing the game and save space on whatever storage media the game is on), corners are cut in the amount of space for calculations.  

    You can think of thi
    s as limiting each l
    ine of a paragraph t
    o 20 characters.

Any overflow from one line juts down to the line that follows it.

Playing the video game by performing very specific and well-timed actions can cause a value (an object's identifier in the code, the time registered by the game at that specific point of time, the vertical and horizontal location of a very specific object on a screen, etc.) to be copied or forced into the next line.  **This is code injection**.  

Every program will have its own tolerance for code injection.  Seth Bling (and those like him) enjoy finding and exploiting the possible outcomes of code injection.

Question: Why is it Creationists disbelieve in evolution? More so, is there something in the bible that disputes evolution? Could God not have "created" evolution?
Answer: If one believes in a literal interpretation of the Bible, then there's really no room for evolution.

It is certainly possible to believe in evolution and God, if you don't take a literal view of Genesis.

The theory of evolution involves random mutations that were beneficial and therefore bred true in offspring. Someone who believes in a higher power may see the hand of God where traditional science sees chance.

Question: Why are the republican/democrat debates called debates? There's hardly any debating going on.
Answer: They're mostly called debates to lend some gravitas to the situation.

What they are these days, however, is joint press conferences.

It would be nice to have actual debates, but that would require politicians who are willing and able to think on their feet, and argue in defense of a position, rather than requiring an army of writers to create pre-prepared statements for them to memorize.

There aren't many who are willing or able to do that.

Question: How come I'm not related to people that have the same last name as me?
Answer: Last names didn't always exist. So when they did start existing, sometimes unrelated people chose the same last name. (It's also been long enough since the development of last names that you might be related really far back.)

Question: If you melt a penny or rip up a dollar, are you combating inflation, since that cash is no longer in circulation? or is inflation less straightforward?
Answer: Yes, you are combatting inflation, but the amount of new currency that is added to the economy everyday is so massive that unless you were to orchestrate a huge money burn, you couldn’t make any sort of difference

Question: I've read that quantum computers can easily break all our current security protocols. How do they do this?
Answer: Quantum computers are good at following several "paths" to a solution at once, essentially doing calculations in parallel rather than sequentially. One of the applications for this quantum superposition simultaneous search power is finding prime numbers, which is normally super difficult: if you want to find out if 277 is a prime number, you need to divide by *every* other number less than it and see if any of them go through. If I picked a number with 30 digits, it would take your computer *years* to determine whether it's prime or not. 

And the difficulty of performing a prime factorization of a number is the fundamental key to the security of every modern cryptosystem. If quantum computers can efficiently factorize a prime number, then all of our most sophisticated coding mechanisms are out the window. 

For an explanation of *why* prime numbers are important in cryptography, check out [my comment running through an example of RSA encryption and decryption](_URL_0_).

Question: Why is it called the "Democratic People's Republic of Korea" when it's not a democracy or a republic?
Answer: Your mum wants to get you to eat some food you don't like, so instead of just calling it cabbage, she calls it delicious super tasty munchy fun time. But the cabbage is severe famine and human rights violations.

Question: The most popular coding languages and their uses.
Answer: Well, to begin, there are what is known as "interpreted" languages and then there are "Compiled" languages. Most scripting engines, like PHP or CSS use what is known as an "interpreted language." C, C#, C++ and other languages that the end user never really sees the source code for are called "compiled" languages. There are languages such as Python which could be either, depending on how you write and use Python. Basically, when a developer writes code they write it in a language they can understand. The programming language itself has definitions for what all of that code means, and when the computer Interprets code it basically just reads one line at a time and breaks the code into "machine code" that is, quite literally, the literal translation of what the developer wrote to something that activates the correct buses and instructions inside the CPU. Interpreting code means that the variables in the code are replaced with their corresponding values "just-in-time" before the interpreter reads them. That means that a simple script containing code is read and converted to machine code each time it is executed. By comparison, when we Compile software we are essentially taking all of those human-readable lines of code and reading them ahead of time with our compiler. Because we don't know specific variables for each time the scripts will be executed, the compiler uses placeholders and logic to create a single binary (or executable) that contains all of the machine code and libraries required to run ANY instance of that software. 

So to answer your question, from my limited experience so far...

C# - Desktop / productivity / enterprise applications

C++ - Resource intensive desktop / enterprise applications.

Python - Light scripting / desktop productivity / IoT projects.

Java - Pissing off your colleagues.

PHP - Server side scripting and dynamic HTML web-servers.

HTML - Creating beautiful web pages.

XML - Creating beautiful documents using HTML syntax.

Jscript - Light client side scripting to make responsive HTML.

JQuery - Medium-duty client side scripting to make responsive HTML and complex web applications. 

Angular  &  node - Server side scripting based on the Javascript client-side language.

Question: How does a computer screen work?
Answer: Your monitor has a grid of tiny little boxes called pixels (short for picture element). Each one of these can be controlled independently to display a certain color and brightness. Your computer figures out how to draw your screen by filling in each pixel and sending that information to the monitor. It does this usually around 60 times each second, so for instance, if you move your mouse, each time the screen gets re-painted, the mouse pointer is just the tiniest bit further along its path, creating an illusion of movement.

Question: Why is the Euro more valuable than the American Dollar?
Answer: It doesn't really matter if one number is bigger than the other number. What matters is how many Euros you get and how much stuff you can buy with a Euro. So if I have 3 Euros, but it costs me 3 Euros to buy some candy, then I have no more Euros left! But if I have $2 and it only costs $1 to buy some candy then I have a dollar left over! So even though the Euro is a bigger number, what really matters is how much stuff you can buy with that amount.

So we now know two things: How much can I buy with a euro vs how much can I buy with a USD. And we know how many dollars it costs to buy a euro.

So if I can buy a piece of candy for 3 euros or $1, and I can $2 for one Euro, then I'm much better off selling my Euros to buy dollars because that way I'll be able to get a LOT more candy.

Very smart people who run banks and businesses are aware of this, and so they trade euros for dollars all the time to the extent that the amount of stuff you can buy with euros vs the amount of stuff you can buy with dollars is in proportion to how many euros you can buy per dollar. 

In the perfect world, this means that you can't just trade dollars for euros and therefore buy more stuff. But sometimes people have other reasons for buying dollars instead of euros or vice versa (e.g. if they think that one country is going to be unable to do any work then that makes the banks nervous and so they don't want that countries money).

If people have a strong reason to prefer one currency over the other that is not related to how much candy that currency can buy, then that currency is considered to be overvalued.

If a currency is significantly overvalued, it means that people are knowingly giving themselves a bad deal because they are nervous about the future of the undervalued currency.

Not quite ELI5 link here: _URL_0_

Question: How come the suit (pants, shirt, jacket, tie) became the norm for formal dressing everywhere and not something else?
Answer: After the French Revolution western men (including American men) rapidly abandoned the frilly flamboyant fashion characteristic of the Rococo era and adapted a much more conservative fashion of England. The modern suit was developed in the 19th century by an Englishman named [Beau Brummell](_URL_0_). He wore well tailored jacket, white shirt with neckcloth that eventually became a standard tie or bowtie, and fitted pants. The Great Britain also became the most powerful nation in the 19th and early 20th century, thus influenced formal attires around the world.

Question: Student Loan Default and its consequences?
Answer: What to expect:

1. Your credit will drop like a rock. Don't expect to see it above 530 for at least 6 years, even with aggressive credit building.

2. They will call you constantly. If they can't reach you, they will call your references, until they find a way to get in touch with you. Keep in mind that it is illegal for them to say anything about your loans except to say that they are looking for you, and then only if you listed them as a reference. If you find they are contacting people they were not given permission to contact or are giving them extra information, you or the inconvenienced party can sue for damages. If the debtor decides to give up on the debt and sell it to another collector, the new collector will also make aggressive attempts to collect. Expect 5-8 month cycles of this. You will probably want to google 'Fair Debt Collection Practices Act' for your own protection.

3. You might find specific jobs might reneg on hiring you. Certain employers will look for credit scores and refuse to hire someone in default. This is because they do not like dealing with Wage Garnishings, which is a likely outcome of your situation. You will want to find out what the laws are in your state regarding Wage Garnishings as some states don't garnish for Student Loans.

4. There are certain conditions under which student loans can get discharged. If you are disabled or become disabled, filing bankruptcy with an undue hardship exception, will declare to the judge that you want him to rule on whether the student loans create an undue financial hardship. If he agrees, the loans will be discharged. It is very difficult to get one of these.    There are also exceptions that depend on other conditions such as whether or not you are going to teach or be part of a Civic Service (firefighters, police, peace corps).

5. Assuming Obama gets re-elected and succeeds in student loan reform, the laws for your situation will change soon (6-18 months) in your favor.

If you should wish to fight, [this](_URL_0_) is a great resource. I wish you the best of luck.

Question: Why do many companies nowadays see tattoos as being "unprofessional"?
Answer: Because in much of modern history the people with tattoos have been people very often associated with unsavory organizations, crime, and violence. I think you can understand why companies wishing to present a professional and safe environment would shy away from hiring those with tattoos. That general attitude has been passed down, even though it may not be as applicable nowadays as it was in the past, since many people with tattoos are in no way associated with violence or crime.

Question: Sleep deprivation - If you have a sleepless night and then proceed to get the recommended 7.5 hours of sleep the following days, for how long will you be in a sleep deprivation?
Answer: We just talked about this in my psychology class today. There's a case study about this guy who, as a high school student, wanted to break the record of longest number of days without sleep (which was 11 days at the time). He made it 12 days, probably with some "micro sleeps" here and there. He suffered all kinds of side effects, from headaches to irritability to hallucinations and more. When he finished, he slept about 12 hours a night for three or four nights and was right back to normal with no lasting effects and was able to go back to a regular sleep schedule. So really the idea of your body having to catch up isn't completely accurate. Your body just needs sleep in general to function properly and consolidate memories/repair itself. If you have one sleepless night you'll probably have a rough day, but if you get the recommended amount of sleep the following night you should be right back on track.

Question: Gabriel's horn, having trouble visualizing it.
Answer: Well, you could just consider it being made of lego blocks instead. Each block with length of 1 along x-axis, first one that covers the entire horn from x=1 to x=2 would have side length of 2 * 1. Basically, you're approximating upwards, so that lego is bigger than it needs to be near x=2 but that's fine. So lego block has length 1, and two other dimensions are 2 * 1, so it has volume of 4

Next lego block from x = 2 to x = 3 would have to have side length of 2 * 1/2, so total volume 4 * 1/4 = 1.

Next lego, side length 2 * 1/3, so 4 * 1/9. The next one, 4 * 1/16.

So basically, our lego blocks have volumes 4 * 1/x^2 

So volume of Gabriels horn has to be smaller than the lego blocks that contain it, which form neat series 4 * (1 + 1/4 + 1/9 + 1/16 + ...). Sum of inverses of squares is finite, so maybe that helps?(Sum of inverses of squares is pi^2 / 6)

Question: Why is cheese such a big deal to the French?
Answer: Back before refrigeration, food either went bad or had to be preserved somehow. Meat and milk would quickly go bad. France is known for its sauces as a way to cover up the rancid meat. Cheese was a way to preserve milk so it wouldn't spoil as quickly.

Question: instead of fighting green energy, why don't coal and gas companies invest in it?
Answer: The current energy companies have every motivation to get in on "green energy ". There are just a few problems: It is more expensive to produce than traditional fossil fuels, or only effective in a few areas or times, or doesn't have the necessary capacity.

Often the only reason we see green energy is because of government subsidies. From the traditional energy companies' standpoint this is just passing a law to take money from people and give it to their competitors. As they see it they have a superior product; more powerful, more flexible, more reliable, and less expensive. If "Big Oil" could make or buy solar panels (for example) and provide electricity to their customers at a lower cost than digging up oil then they would; however greedy and sadistic you want to paint them, at least trust that they wouldn't throw money away.

Many big energy companies are accused of buying up green energy concepts and squashing them, never to be seen again. The companies want in on the next big thing early, but what they find is an inferior product that doesn't stand on its own without government intervention. They retain the tech but keep selling what the market wants: The least expensive solution. That is oil, for now.

Question: What exactly is sous-vide? Isn't it just boiling the food?
Answer: Here's how it works. You wrap your food in plastic and put it in a water bath set to a precise temperature. It turns out that for protein foods, it's not how long they cook that determines how done they are, but the maximum temperature reached. So sous-vide lets you control precisely whether a steak is rare, medium, or wherever *exactly* you want it.

If you want a medium rare steak, put it in water at 130F. After an hour or so that temperature will be reached all through the steak, but you can leave it in for another hour if you want and it barely changes. This makes it very flexible for cooking when you aren't quite sure when you will be serving dinner.

Question: How did translations of the first languages go about?
Answer: Do you mean how do peoples who speak different languages learn each other's language?

This can be done in much in the same way as the fundamentals of language are taught: lots of ad hoc sign language. You could start with the basics such as "My name is X. What is your name?" and progress to pointing at objects and giving their names. The grammatical rules can be picked up by noticing how words are ordered and how they change in various contexts, such as when referring to one object or many (singular versus plural).

EDIT: grammar

Question: Why are some medications race-based?
Answer: There's sufficient genetic difference between various human races to create different reactions to certain drugs, or increase the possibility of certain reactions in certain races. 

An example of one such difference is a genetic switch in some Asians that floors them completely when they have one drink because their metabolism very rapidly turns the alcohol they ingest into acetaldehyde, which is poisonous when in larger doses and gives them wicked hangovers. 

Some drugs are metabolized or take effect in different ways as programmed by race-specific genetics, and that can lead to bad side-effects such as cancer or a drug that just doesn't work at all.

Question: How does Publix (a grocery chain in the SE United States) make a profit when they offer so many buy one-get one (BOGO) deals?
Answer: The store doesn't fund those sales - the manufacturer does. The manufacturer then uses this marketing expense as a tax write-off. 

Source: used to work in the industry.

Question: Why do many large companies lease their office/retail space instead of owning it?
Answer: There are a couple of reasons I can think of.
1. A lease is nearly a 100% write off as it is an expense. If a company gets a loan on the building only the interest would be a write off. 
2. Buying a building with cash locks in a lot of capital to a single asset. Capital that could be used for other ways of increasing productivity. 
3. Selling a building can be a long drawn out process depending on the market. So if a business decided to move they would have a difficult time scheduling that when compared to a lease where they know when the lease is up and can plan accordingly.

Question: If another Winter frost hits and kills all the newly sprung animals and flowers, would they simply procreate and bloom again when it gets warmer, or would everything be dead until next Spring?
Answer: They would continue procreating when the weather warmed up for good. One frost doesn't wipe out every organism out there. If one event was capable of destroying everything none of us would be here.

Relax! Spring is coming for good, hopefully soon, and all the new plants and animals will come along with it.

Question: If Muhammad was "just" a prophet, then why do Muslims treat his persona at a level above what modern Christians treat Jesus Christ?
Answer: You have an important misconception in your question. Jesus IS seen as God in mainstream Christianity. All mainstream Christian groups are trinitarian and agree on this point. This is core Christian doctrine.

There are only a very small number of fringe churches that are nontrinitarian, (such as the Mormons) and these are generally not considered Christian by mainstream Christianity despite their self identifying as such. Denying the divinity of Jesus = not Christian, at least as far as mainstream Christianity is concerned. 

Jesus is seen as a prophet in Islam (which, like Judaism, is nontrinitarian.)

As to the fervour, I don't think it is down to the religions per se but rather cultural and external factors: the level of modernity in a society, the Enlightenment in Europe, and the acceptance of secularism in most traditionally Christian countries.

People used be executed for blasphemy in Christian countries all the time; you have no doubt heard of the Spanish Inquisition and the Salem Witch Trials, while the last person to be executed in Britain for blasphemy was as recent as the end of the seventeenth century.

In fact, if you look at the entire history of the two religions, Christianity is almost certainly far less tolerant of people having different beliefs. Islam by contrast has historically tolerated Christians and Jews and afforded them the right to worship (although notably NOT the Baha'i, who are seen as an Islamic heresy.)

TL;DR, it is because Islamic *countries* are more conservative rather than anything specifically to do with the religion.

Question: Why do we clap for celebration?
Answer: The truth is ... we did not evolve from apes. We evolved from Sea Lions.

Question: How do you "get" depression? Do things that make life miserable alter the chemicals in our brains, are certain people more likely to be depressed?
Answer: There's a difference between regular depression and clinical depression. Everybody gets regular depression when something depressing happens. 

Clinical depression is a completely different animal. It's not "oh my dog died and I'm depressed."  If you are clinically depressed, it last weeks, months, even years if not treated. It causes aches and pains. It affects your life in an adverse way. You gain weight, lose your job, etc. you contemplate suicide. And above all, it happens for *no reason whatsoever.* there is no single event you can tie your depression to. 

As far as how an episode starts. There is usually a trigger. Something minor or innocuous that on another day wouldn't bother you at all. But once it happens, your mind goes into overdrive. You relentlessly over analyze and second guess everything you've ever done. Over and over. You relive your most embarrassing moments and find embarrassing things about other moments too.  It's sort of like one of those "oh god. Why?" Rage comic moments except it lasts for weeks and *you can't turn it off.*

Then there's the medication, which all sucks because it never makes you feel normal just "not depressed." Lexapro made me stop giving a shit about everything, including cleaning my apartment, paying my bills on time, oh and also I couldn't have an orgasm. Paxil made me way too anxious and then I got really sick after going off of it. 

Now, it is possible that something could cause clinical depression. In my case it was because I was a Jehovah's Witness and it was extremely bad for my mental condition. But at the time I was a true believer and wouldn't even consider that was the cause. But I did meet the criteria medically for clinical depression. Ever since I left, I haven't needed a single pill. So I guess one cause of it could be an underlying issue the person is unwilling to address or admit it's effect.

Question: How can people function on only a few hours of sleep?
Answer: Polyphasic sleep is supposedly one way - I tried it a couple of times, but I suck at sleeping during the day, so it never worked out for me.

Check out the various patterns at the Wikipedia page: _URL_0_ ... I would LOVE to get the Uberman pattern going, if it actually works - look at the remark about the Dymaxion pattern, the author couldn't actually test it because his wife wouldn't let him.

As for myself, I don't sleep that much, typically between 5 and 6 hours a day. It seems to work out fine, I found that it actually helps avoiding caffeine. It may give you a boost, but long-term, it brings you down. I go several days without drinking any soda at all. If you currently have a habit, you need to shake it - that means zero caffeine for at least 7 days (it will suck during the first 24-48 hours, you'll get headaches).

One or twice a week, I typically crash and have to sleep for a few hours during the day, usually on a weekend.

It should also be mentioned that most sleep experts agree that cutting down the amount of sleep per day has a negative impact on your health.

Question: How did calendars developed thousands of years ago such as the Julian calendar keep track of time so efficiently?
Answer: Actually, they didn't get it quite right, to the point where they had to eliminate about 10 days in the fall, about 500 years ago, to correct the accumulating error.

Side note:  I had an astronomy profession in college (where I learned about this) who also taught history.  One of her favorite exam questions was, "What notable event occurred on Oct 12, 1523 ?"  (not sure of the exact date).  This was a day that never existed.

Question: Why is general anaesthesia so common for wisdom teeth removal, if it isn't necessary?
Answer: It varies from patient to patient. But the general rule is to try and avoid exposure to general anesthesia for ~~unnecessary~~ procedures *that do not really need GA*. It is advised to remove wisdom teeth one at a time under local anesthesia (several weeks to months apart) instead of removing them all at once which requires the patient to go under general anesthesia. Unless there are some factors that suggest removing them all at once. Like 4 badly impacted wisdom teeth (quite unlikely).

EDIT: phrasing.

EDIT 2: When I mentioned/hinted that 4 wisdom teeth removal might require general anesthesia, I did not say that it cannot be done under a local one. It really depends on the patient, how badly the teeth are impacted (depth, angle; they have grades of impaction @dental diagnostic criteria) and dental centers preference (or school of thought).

Question: Most of my money is a number in a bank database. What is there to stop a bank artificially inflating someone's number?
Answer: It is not just 1 number, it's the sum of a transaction history that is cross-referenced to the various accounts that put money in or took it out of your account. If you just made one number bigger, the whole thing wouldn't balance and that would be picked up by the auditors/accountants.

Question: How can people with Down's Syndrome donate blood
Answer: Red blood cells do not have a nucleus, and therefore no DNA.   Assuming that there is not a separate mutation/issue that impacts RBC production, their red blood cells would be normal.   Not sure about other blood products.

Question: How does the Federal Government have jurisdiction on First Nation land?
Answer: Major Crimes Act (18 U.S.C. § 1153): The Major Crimes Act (enacted following the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1883 Ex Parte Crow Dog decision) provides for federal criminal jurisdiction over seven major crimes when committed by Indians in Indian country. Over time, the original seven offenses have been increased to sixteen offenses currently.

Indian reservations are not their own countries (like Mexico) and operate under the US Bureau of Indian Affairs

TLDR; It depends on the crime being commited whether or not this falls under Tribal or Federal or State jurisdictions

Question: Why is Morrissey so popular amongst Latinos?
Answer: Latino here, In my opinion Morrissey's style of singing is very similar to Mariachi style, including song lyrics and such. Having grown up with maricahi music, listening to Morrissey just feels very similar.

Question: What do physicists mean when they say space is curved?
Answer: Because spacetime behaves like it's curved by the presence of mass and energy. What does curvature mean? Let's say we have two points and we draw a straight line between them. Now let's say we want to increase the length of the line while keeping the endpoints fixed. How do we do that? We curve it so that it's no longer straight. The shortest distance between two points is a straight line, so to increase the distance, we make the line no longer straight.

If you have two points in empty space, there is some distance between them. Now put the same two points near a black hole, and you'll measure the distance between the points to be larger. The way physicists interpret this is that the space in between the two points near the black hole is curved (there is a larger distance between the two fixed points).

 > Why would an empty space have any shape at all either flat or curved?

A completely empty universe would just have the Minkowski metric of Special Relativity, which is globally flat.

Question: Why did a law need to be passed telling federal employees that they couldn't participate in insider trading?
Answer: This is how I understand it.  Can someone please fill in the details or correct me on this?

Part of the reason is because, technically, a lot of what they were doing wasn't "insider" trading.  Typically, insider trading happens (e.g.) when you work for a company or are someway involved in a company and you happen to know that your company did something good, so you and your buddies buy up a bunch of stock in advance of that public knowledge.  There are other ways, but basically it's when you or someone you know has knowledge "inside" of a company.

There's plenty of that that went on in Congress as well, and still will.  But what was happening was that Congress itself was the "insider".  It knew it was about to pass a law that, say, hurt companies X, Y, and Z.  So they took that knowledge and sold their shares or "shorted" them to make a profit off this knowledge.

Technically, this didn't have anything to do with having "inside knowledge" of a company's performance, financials, etc, so it was legal.  It's still wrong, though, because it gives lawmakers a financial incentive to make laws one way or another that benefit them financially.

Question: Why do problems and stresses that don't seem like a big deal during the day suddenly seem life threatening and world ending when you wake up at 2:30 AM?
Answer: I'm not sure what 'stresses' you are taking about, but I'm going to take a guess at what you mean and work from there. 

You are at your most vulnerable when you are asleep. You are effectively unconscious and many of your senses are non-responsive or at least sort of 'muted' as it were. This means that when you wake up at 2:30 in the morning because you heard a bump downstairs, or a loud howl of wind, your mind goes into overdrive because the 'threat' could be quite a lot closer due to your unconscious state. You need to be ready for a fight just in case. Your brain isn't perfect and it can sometimes relay that fear to other, non threatening but still stressful situations.

Question: Why do we just "click" with some people?
Answer: Because our personalities relate in some manner. I figured this out by looking into it and wondering my friends were my friends. It really just came down to being weird, funny, spontaneous, talkitive and stuff like that. My brain just likes these people and gets a 'high' off of them. Sorta like a drug

Question: How are mathematicians and astronomers able to predict solar and lunar eclipses thousands of years in advance?
Answer: Because it's simply a math problem involving physics equations.

Consider a math problem from your school text book where there are a pair of train tracks leading from Chicago to St. Louis which is 250 miles away. A train leave Chicago at noon going at 50 mph while at the same time a train leaves St. Louis traveling at 75 mph. Where along the route would you need to be waiting to watch the trains cross each others path (an *eclipse*) and at what time would that happen?

Solving such a problem isn't too hard, and since the planets follow a predictable path with a predictable speed too (as dictated by [Newton](_URL_0_)) you can solve for them too if you gather all the numbers about where they are and how fast they orbit.

Question: Why do people's voices get super deep/groggy in the mornings?
Answer: I looked this up because I was curious. Basically it's gunk (phlegm?) that builds up in your throat overnight from your horizontal position, then goes away once you're upright.

Question: If every blood donation is screened for HIV, why is it dangerous to let a group with a higher rate of HIV donate blood?
Answer: Window period of HIV testing: this is the time between when you acquire HIV and when an HIV test becomes positive. If you donate blood between those two time points, that unit of blood may transmit HIV.

Imperfect testing: the tests used to screen the blood supply for communicable diseases are very good, but not perfect. A population with a higher rate of infection with a disease has a higher rate of false negative test results. Using medical terminology, I am referring to the dependence of negative predictive value on pre-test probability for a test with a given sensitivity.

Question: Why do we crave the cold side of the pillow?
Answer: I can only speak from my experiences, but I'm much more comfy when my ears are cold. A warm pillow makes my ears too warm. So I flip the pillow and it feels more pleasant against my ears and keeps them cool.

Question: What is actually going on inside your body when you "get the wind knocked out of you"?
Answer: Your solar plexus is a bundle of nerves. If you are hit there, the nerves are shocked for a while, and cause your diaphragm to be paralyzed. This keeps you from breathing.

Question: Audio vacuum tubes
Answer: Hey, one I can answer! 

First off, the "information" that enters a tube is not audio, it is just an electrical signal. 

The internal components of a vacuum tube are the cathode, anode, grid, and heating element.  The small signal (~mv) that needs to be amplified enters the tube via the grid, which rests between the cathode and anode which are both coated with a material that encourages electron flow. The anode is positively charged with a much higher voltage than the grid, while the cathode is negatively charged. As the small signal hits the grid it creates a fluctuation in the large flow of electrons between the cathode and anode, thus amplifying the signal. The heating element is used to promote the flow of electrons, while keeping the components in a vacuum both promotes electron flow and reduces component wear to to oxidation.  

Source: I build guitar amps. 

tl;dr Small signal modulates big signal.

Question: What if any economic impact will the Large Hadron Collider have on mankind?
Answer: It's impossible to know, but you might be surprised. Some quick examples:

1. The Internet as we know it today was the result of the work of Tim Berners-Lee, an employee of CERN, the operator of the LHC. He coupled the Internet, the largest node of which was then at CERN, with the concept of HyperText (which allows you to "mark up" and therefore create a webpage with formatting, links, etc). CERN was later the host of the world's first modern website.

2. Abstract concepts to us, like relativity, have surprising uses. As it happens, relativity is crucial to the operation of GPS, which wouldn't be accurately able to locate a device on Earth using timing signals from space without it.

3. Technology driven for one purpose can often be redirected for another. By building the LHC we've had to solve some incredibly challenging problems, the first to spring to mind being that it produces about a petabyte of data per second, which needs to be assessed and stored in real-time. That's a pants-on-head stupid amount of data, and I can't think of any such challenge that we've ever had to overcome before, and it's an interesting way of foreseeing some of the challenges we're almost certainly going to face with the growth of the Internet.

Question: Why are Jews so made fun of?
Answer: [Here is a "Simple to Remember" explanation of the six main reasons why](_URL_0_), written by folks who have a lot of experience with this question.

Question: How can Libertarians oppose the militarization of police forces yet ardently support the 2nd Amendment?
Answer: There is absolutely nothing at all hypocritical about the position.  The difference is that police are agents of the state whose word and direction represent the will of the state.  The more militarized a police force the more the state is able to control the populace.  There is also NO Constitutional provision protecting the right of agents of the state to carry a firearm.

An individual, by contrast, is not an agent of the state.  They are a private individual citizen with a protected Constitutional right to protect their liberty, property, and family from force whether it be from another private individual or the unjust actions of the state.

Question: Why don't they package soda and beer the same? Like why do we have 30 racks of beer and not soda?
Answer: There *ARE* 30 packs of soda. Walmart sells them. [Here's a link for 30 cans of Diet Mt Dew](_URL_0_) If you want to see other examples you can google 30 pack of soda, thats how I found that link.

Question: Why is it so hard for smokers to stop smoking?
Answer: There is a lot of ritual involved in smoking and a lot of nostolgia for most people that goes beyond the physical addiction. 

Many people have their work tied in mentally to cigarette breaks. The stress is the stress of that ritual being disrupted. For a smoker the smoke break is like waiting for Christmas and Christmas comes every two hours. Take that away and it becomes hard to tolerate previously tolerable things. 

There is also a sort of fraternity among smokers that you loose. Many people met lots of friend over bumming, giving away cigarettes to others. Smoke breakers usually move in crowds, whether in work or in bars and it is a social network that can get you laid or advance your career (if your boss smokes, if a hot friend of a friend smokes, you get new ways too talk to them.)

Smoking is like a little present you get every day with all sorts of great memories and people attached to it. It's not just raw addiction to the drug that makes people miserable, it is loosing the habit itself. 

At least for me anyway. For chain smokers it is probably different or people who can still light up when ever it is probably different.

Question: Why is it that I visit websites and Facebook/Google automatically know that and give me targeted ads?
Answer: When you visit websites  that link to pages of interest, they send your pseudo identity and your interest profile to central ad servers.    When you visit another page that has an ad spot for a remarketing ad, they pull your identity and interest profile and select those ads that are best matched to you.    Your pseudoidentity is an id number that's generated and kept on your browser as a cookie.

Question: Why do flies keep on landing on the same spot after scaring them away
Answer: Because they have very limited mental capacity. They are like a very primitive computer programm. 

Find food source. Avoid fast moving thing on collision course. Breed. 

They can't process that there is an entity that doesn't want them to come to a certain spot.

Question: Was there ever a "wood age"?What do we know about wooden(and other perishable) tools?
Answer: No, there was never a point in human history where we could use wooden tools but not stone tools. 

The "stone age" is just a term used to describe when we used tools that were naturally occurring. 

We used fire hardened spears and flint knapped with stone.

Edit- Flint knapping not flint mapping.

Question: The ongoing mental imagery debate.
Answer: here we go i will post what i think and say it is true,  and then someone will post why what i post is wrong and then you will have the correct answer :) 


one side says we use the same pathways in the brain when imagining something as we do when we actually see it.

the other side says no that is not true,  we use the memory networks in our brain to remember what things look like.

Question: Why are death row inmates housed separately?
Answer: People care less about obeying rules when they are about to die. At this point what do they have to lose? Did Jerry over in cell D12 make a rude comment about your mother? Maybe Jerry should get stabbed 12 times with a sharpened tooth brush. What are the guards going to do about it? Kill you? lol!

Question: Not so long ago thieves were mutilated for their crimes, today they can easily get off with a warning or probation. What lead to this?
Answer: Rule of law and civilization happened.

In the old days it wasn't just that violent punishments were more common, it was that violence itself was much more common than it is today.

Despite all the wars happening around the world, if you lived in the last hundred years you were less likely to die a violent death than at any other time in history. 

This affects all parts of society. Not too long ago in the most civilized parts of the world it was common and normal to witness violent spectacles far worse than anything ISIS does today. Taking your kids to the town square to witness a man being gruesomely tutored to death for something that we wouldn't even consider a crime today was not out od the ordinary in medieval Europe.

Violence was much more common in those days.

What happened was that eventually the rulers managed to achieve a monopoly on violence. The process was quite bloody and violent at times but the end result meant that there was a lot less violence to go around.

Basically the government ended up saying "The only one who can kill and maim and torture and imprison people is me".

This has reduced overall violence quite a lot and let to the rise of something called a "culture of law" vs "culture of honor".

The more towards a culture of law a society is oriented the less emphasis there is on upholding personal honor as a means of keeping yourself safe. Violence goes down and even the violence committed by the state decreases.

You get fewer police shootings and draconian punishments at the price of need to cede all your rights to commit violence to the state.

The state has to defend its monopoly on violence, when that fails pockets of society end up creating their own means of keeping themselves safe.

America is far more oriented towards the honor side than for example some countries in Europe and inside the US you have a divide between place like New England and the South. You also have pockets in big cities where the people have stopped believing in the rules of law and that the police is there to help them and started to protect themselves by being violent and showing the world that they are not to be messed with.

You don't want that.

Meanwhile if you compare the damage done by thieves and robbers in places that appear to be lax on crime and value attempts at rehabilitation over vengeance, you will find that harsh punishments don't really do much to help.

Extreme punishments like hacking a thief's hand of or whipping someone in public for saying the wrong thing to the wrong person are not making society safe, they instead correlated with extremely unsafe conditions.

Question: Why do cable companies give such wide and inconvenient timeslots for doing housecalls?
Answer: lets say that the tech has 8 trips to make.  they don't know how long each appt will take.  some could take 10 min.  others could take an hour.  so they give you a range.  but 8-5 is rather unreasonable.  i usually see 8-12 or 1-5.  you can ask them to call you before they get there.  some will, some won't...

Question: How does the National Security Council differ from other federal agencies?
Answer: The NSC is just a group of people, with other government jobs, to whom the President turns for national security advice and recommendations.  They read the analysis (facts) written by experts and help the President evaluate public opinion and political factors (not facts).

Question: What are transcendental equations
Answer: Transcendental equations usually lack analytical solutions. But a simple way to solve them numerically is to plot both sides of the equation and look where the lines intersect.

For example

* tan (x) = e^x

You cannot solve this analytically, but plot both functions (see link) and you'll see that solutions still exist since the plots intersect each other at multiple places (for example at x ≈ 1.3). 

_URL_0_

Question: federal debt: why some people think it doesn't matter, and some do
Answer: First part of answering the question is to understand what federal debt or "Sovereign Debt" is.
_____  
Sovereign Debt in the USA is created (mainly) through the use of *Treasury Bills* or "T-Bills".  These are sold by the government to business, banks and individuals.  

When you buy a T-Bill you pay the face value and the government promises to pay you that value plus some amount of interest when the bill matures (maturity rates are 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, 2 years, 5 years, and 10 years).  The longer your maturity the higher the interest rate.
_____  
With an understanding of what the debt is, we can answer does it matter?
_____  
**now whether it matters is a matter of opinion, but the general consensus among economists is that *at the moment* it doesn't**.

The reason it doesn't really matter consists of three main parts; Who is owed, the ability of the government to pay it back, and the interest rate.

1) Who is Owed?  As of September 2013 the breakdown is as follows:  
A) Total Debt: 16.738 Trillion    
B) SOMA and Intragovernmental Holdings: 6.834 Trillion  
C) Foreign and International: 5.653 Trillion  
D) Mutual Funds: 1.083 Trillion  
E)  Other (Private owners, savings bonds, depository institutions, etc.: 3.168 Trillion  
[Word Doc from US Treasury's site](_URL_3_)

So the Government itself holds ~40% of the debt, foreign investors (business, banks, and countries) hold ~ 33%, and everyone else holds ~27%.
[
Of the foreign holders the biggest two are China and Japan with ~1.3 and 1.2 Trillion \(respectively\)](_URL_1_)

2) Can the government pay it back?  
Most likely, yes.  The US government has *never* failed to pay its debts and some argue that the [14th Amendment requires the US to pay its debts](_URL_2_).

3) The interest rates.  
Interest rates on T-Bills is *incredibly* low.  Under 1% on the 1 year T-Bills.  That means that if you buy a $100 T-Bill today, it will be worth $101 in a year.  Compare this to the rate of inflation which[ since 2010 has fluctuated between 1.5% and 3.2%](_URL_0_).    
This means that 1 year T-Bills are *effectively* free money for the government.
_____     
Since the plurality of debt is held by the US Government and citizens, the US has never failed to pay its debts, and the interest rates are so low, the Debt is, for now and the foreseeable future, **not a problem**.

Question: Why do we capitalise all words except conjunctions and some prepositions in titles?
Answer: Convention, at heart.

It used to be that writers capitalized all letters. Then, some time passed, and they capitalized only nouns and beginnings of sentences. Then, more time passed, and they started capitalizing only proper nouns. 

It's gotten to the point that we only capitalize more meaningful words in  general and in titles. For instance, "the" isn't as meaningful as nouns and verbs are.

EDIT: Teotwaki69 correctly says in the below post that the convention is based on parts of speech.

Question: Why does toothpaste clean headlights so well?
Answer: Toothpaste is an abrasive.  
  
If you imagine starting with a plank of rough wood, and wanted it to be really smooth, you'd start with really rough sandpaper. That would scrape out lots of (relatively) deep grooves in the wood. You'd now have something with a rough finish, and would repeat that with finer and finer grades of sandpaper. Going from 40 up to 250 or higher would leave you with a smooth surface, and the scratches get finer, and each time you're scraping away the smaller scratches.  
  
For something see through it's harder, and the light gets bent more easily by even small scratches, so you'd have to use really really high grades of sandpaper, and it still might look foggy.  
  
Now instead of sandpaper, imagine you took the abrasive off the paper and just rubbed it straight on with a cloth. This would be polishing compound, and it makes much smaller scratches. If you use very small abrasive particles, the scratches are too small to be that far off a flat surface. Toothpaste is a close approximation to a polishing compound like this. The scratches are so small the surface is almost completely flat. You've removed the bigger scratches and your headlights are clear.

Question: in World War 2, to go home did you have to become disabled and would you get paid straight away?
Answer: There were a number of qualifications needed to be sent home from the front during World War II as a discharged serviceman or woman - 

1.) Contracting an illness that required long term recovery
2.) Amputations
3.) Wounds that interfered with stamina, agility, dexterity
4.) Loss of sight in at least one eye
5.) Capture and Interrment in a POW camp

There were other reasons, but those were the majority of the causes resulting in discharge from the military. 

Compensation came in the forms of the Servicemen's Readjustment Act of 1944, also known as the GI Bill of Rights. Under this Bill, servicemen who served in WWII were eligible to receive the following: 

- four years of education or training. At the time, this consisted of $500 towards tuition, books and supplies, plus a monthly subsistence allowance. 

- guaranteed home, farm and business loans up to $2,000

- unemployment benefits of $20 weekly for up to 52 weeks provided they served a minimum of 90 days prior to medical discharge. It was also understood that returning soldiers, if they were able, could resume their previous employment, vacated when they either enlisted or were drafted. 

[ Taken from: _URL_0_ ]

As for disability payments? The answer is no. They were not paid straight away. Applications were reviewed and often delayed, temporary or in significantly smaller amounts than anticipated. To this day, there are WWII veterans who are still struggling to obtain disability compensation from their time in WWII. For some of these soldiers, their benefits were cut off, or were delayed, or otherwise ended precipitously. 

Case in point:  _URL_3_

The veterans were able to receive some rehabilitative services, and some additional health care services thanks to the 1943 LaFollette-Barden Vocational Rehabilitation Act, and then later, thanks to 1946 Hill-Burton Act, where hospitals, rehab centers and public health facilities, but at the time, the 1935 Social Security Act's disability clauses applied primarily to the blind and disabled children. 

It wasn't until the 1950s that Social Security was expanded to include disability benefits.

Additional source information:  _URL_2_, _URL_1_

Question: Why are crickets so hard to find?
Answer: It’s hard to pinpoint in on sounds that are loud enough to create an echo. Things like a smoke detector that beep, leave you clueless because it echos and the sound bounces all over and also it’s short. The beep only goes on for a few moments and then it stops. Sounds that are constant like for example a hissing sound of a leaking air line are easy to find because it’s constant and you can constantly adjust your perception of where it is. A cricket chirps and then it’s silent, leaving you with no ability to figure out where the noise came from and only for you to guess.

Question: How does machine learning work? Do computers experience cognitive dissonance where they have to weigh two conflicting ideas?
Answer: There's a bunch of variations, but a lot of them look like this:

The computer is given four things:

1. A bunch of pre-defined inputs that look like what it has to do (whether it's a medical diagnosis, the screen of an Atari game, or a Go board)
2. A program that processes the inputs
3. A bunch of knobs it can tweak on that program to change it's behavior.
4. A program that judges it and gives it a score based on the output.

The computer will then run millions of simulations, and tweak the knobs to try to get the best score overall for all of the inputs it gets. 

There's a bunch of strategies the computer uses to try to figure out how to tweak the knobs. Sometimes, it does get stuck in a corner where tweaking any one knob makes the score get worse but tweaking multiple will make it get better. There are strategies to help the computer get out of that corner, but none of them are really "cognitive dissonance" because the computer still isn't really a brain.

Question: Why does my dog choose so carefully where he pees?
Answer: Dogs actually communicate by peeing certain ways or places. If he pees on a place which had already been peed on, he is kinda respondibg the message by the previous dog. Also they can mark their terrotories or leave a message for other dogs.

Question: why do news channels consider Twitter a reliable, relevant, and serious source for different things?
Answer: Newspaper reporter here. Proof: _URL_0_ 

Journalists use Twitter as a place for information the same way we talk to people as sources. There are a lot of people on Twitter who do and say newsworthy things. Barack Obama, Pope Francis, tons of politicians, scientists and business people all have Twitter accounts. Sometimes they post things that are relevant to larger audiences.

The other thing that's great about Twitter is when breaking news happens. During the Boston Marathon bombings manhunt, average citizens posted information about what streets police shut down and provided details about what they heard and saw from places journalists couldn't get to. The people on Twitter gave first-hand accounts that reporters used as leads to tell the rest of the country what was going on.

Social media in general made a huge impact on the Arab Spring, which started in 2010 when citizens took to the streets in protest against various governments throughout the Middle East. Average people's tweets and videos became the first recordings of history. It was an incredible moment that showed how social media could make such a profound impact on the world at large.

Good reporters take what they see on Twitter with a grain of salt just like we treat all information we receive with a bit of skepticism. Twitter is never used as the full story but it has become a major way people around the world share information. People in the media can't and shouldn't ignore it as a legitimate place to learn more about what is happening outside of our newsrooms.

Question: Why are mice associated with cheese?
Answer: Most mice prefer to feed on grains and nuts rather than cheese, but when they're hungry, they'll eat whatever they can find that is edible. Cheese tends to smell very strongly, especially when not refrigerated, and that makes it easier to find by mice, so when they're hungry, they'll go for whatever's easiest to find, i.e. cheese. Over time, this created the (incorrect) assumption that mice like cheese, and this in turn was used in cartoons and other media so often that some people assume that mice are inordinately fond of cheese.

Question: How do speakers of tonal languages convey different degrees of emotion?
Answer: From experience (speaking Mandarin).
Before we start, let me try to explain a small bit about how the language works, since it's quite different from English. What most people call words in Mandarin, those single syllabic things with tones, apart from some very commonly used ones, are almost never used alone. They are almost used as part of a short "phrase", which work a lot more similarly to words in English. And because of this, those "phrases" are about as well known for a Mandarin speaker, as words are for an English speaker.

So you have a lot more freedom regarding emphasis and tone than you would imagine. There are only 4 tones in Mandarin (5 if you count no tone), flat, rising, falling then rising, and falling. These only apply to those single syllabic words and are quite distinct from each other, differentiating between them isn't too hard (usually).

A phrase as a whole may have a variety of "tones" itself, rising or falling within itself. If this is hard to imagine, picture a piece of music that has an overall rising melody, it may have small parts of it that rise or fall. And this combined with emphasis on words, stresses, etc can convey just as many nuances as English.

And as far as someone breaking down in tears, that's pretty hard to understand in any language.

Question: Why is self-plagiarism an issue in academics?
Answer: SOURCE: I am a college professor and published academic.

Several people have already said "you're not doing the work" to which OP is responding, "I did the work earlier and isn't the point just to be competent anyway?"

Well, yes and no.

The fact is, if you asked ten educators the purpose of education, you'd probably get fifteen different answers.  Teaching you about specific subjects is one purpose.  Teaching you "how to learn"--that is, how to approach new material in a self-beneficial way--is another.  Yet another is economic: part of going to school is learning to deal with authority, to perform seemingly pointless tasks, and to jump through hoops (so to speak).  Giving you a diploma or a degree is one way of telling employers, "this person can do assignments."

Setting aside the cynical explanation, though, and returning to the purely pedagogical one: there is value in repetition. If you learn to play a single song on the piano, you will get very good at that song, but you will never become a concert pianist.  If you lift weights only one time, you will never get stronger.  If you turn in the same paper two or three or four times, you have only "done the work" once, when the real educational value is to be found in "doing the work" over and over again.

That's why it's generally disallowed by teachers and professors: because it's "cheating" yourself out of the experience the class is supposed to provide.  That said, as a graduate student I have (sparingly) quoted my own previous work in new papers, complete with citation, and have never been criticized for it.

Question: How does investment work? Why should I buy shares in a company?
Answer: Say you have a lot of money. Let's say $2 million. That's about as much as an average productive American worker might make in their lifetime. What do you do with that money? You could spend it, but that's kind of a waste. That money could support you for the rest of your life, without you having to work. So let's store it somewhere.

Great. Where do we store it?

You could just keep it in cash and store it under your mattress or in your backyard or something. But that's not the best idea. What if something happens? What if your house burns down? What if you dig up the money from the backyard and find that it all rotted or decayed or was eaten by worms? (This has actually happened to people, don't bury paper money) What's more, there's the problem of inflation. $2 million now probably won't buy as much stuff in forty years. Money gets less valuable over time. You want somewhere where your money will be safe, and where it will make more money, growing how much money you have faster than inflation makes it worthless.

A bank is an obvious answer. Banks make sense when you have only a little money, because the government will insure up to $250,000 if the bank fails, which they probably will at some point in your life. My bank failed in 2008. But if you have more than $250,000, then you might not be able to get the rest of your money. What's more, banks only give a little bit of interest on your savings. Like, one or two percent. We can probably do better than that.

So you invest it. Investing can be many things, but basically it's just taking money you have and buying something that will make you money in one way or another.

For a simple example, you could invest in something whose price will rise, like some sort of commodity. If you decided buy $2 million worth of gold, that would be an example of a commodity investment. You'd be betting that the price of gold would go up, and you could sell that gold later for more than the $2 million you bought it for. 

You could also buy something you could extract some sort of continuous value out of. For instance, you could buy a house, and then rent it to people. Or buy something like a restaurant, retail store, factory, or mine and take the profit.

Buying shares in a company is a very common way to invest. Basically, a company divides ownership of itself into small pieces and sells those to investors. This means the company can get cash, and helps split up the risk. If someone owns 100% of a company, and the company folds, that guy is in a world of hurt. Stocks let many people only buy a little bit of the company, so if the company folds, they only lose a little bit of their money.

There are two main monetary benefits, and one indirect benefit to holding stock in a company. One, you can sell your shares later at a higher price like you would a commodity, making money that way. Also, when a company is doing well and makes a big profit, they'll often give out a "dividend" to their shareholders, giving everybody a little share of the profit for each share of stock they hold.

There's also the fact that at the end of the day you're buying part of a company. If you buy a lot of that company, you can influence it. Once you buy a certain amount, you can attend shareholder meetings, get information about how the company is performing, and vote on major courses of action. If you buy 51%, you essentially control it, because nobody can have a bigger share of it than you. There's no immediate monetary benefit, but it lets you control the corporation, which you can possibly influence to get more money, or at least to increase the share price, increasing how much money you'll get when you sell your shares.

Question: How do football pools work
Answer: In the simplest form, you have a 10x10 grid of squares.  Along one axis, you have a team name  &  each column gets the numbers 0-9.  Along the other you have the other team's name  &  the rows are labeled 0-9.

When you buy into a pool, you buy a square ($1 per square is common for friendly pools) and put your name in it.  If your square wins, you get all the money.

Each square represents a possible final score for the game, only looking at the final number.  If a game is 24 to 14, the square at (4,4) would be the "winner"; if the game is 21 to 17, the winner would be (1,7).

Question: Lobbying vs Bribery
Answer: Lobbying is convincing an elected official to vote or act in a way that is beneficial to your interests.

Bribery is giving money for personal use to an elected official to vote or act in a way that is beneficial to your interests.

Question: The Second Postulate of Special Relativity.
Answer: The second postulate of special relativity is 'the speed of light in a vacuum is a constant, regardless of the frame from which it is measured'. That's really all there is to it...if you have a physical situation and you measure the speed of light in a vacuum, you'll get c.

 >  Also, its application in the question "If your space ship us moving at the speed of light (obviously theoretically, ignoring that humans are physically incapable of traveling at might speed) and you turn your headlights on, what happens?"

It's not that humans are physically incapable of travelling at light speed, but that anything with mass is incapable of doing so. And this isn't a 'can't stand the stress' problem or anything like that, it's that the laws of the universe are such that there *is no way* to accelerate a massive object to light speed. This is a fundamental limitation which is of the utmost importance, not something that you can ignore by saying things like 'but hypotetically what if'. Essentially, a consequence of measuring light the same in all frames turns out to be that there simply isn't a speed of light rest frame.

To put that another way, asking 'what if we travelled at light speed' is the same question as 'if physics is wrong, what is right?'. There is clearly no scientific answer to this question.

We *can* ask what would happen if you accelerated to 99.99999% of the speed of light and turned out your headlights. The answer is that you would see the light travel away at the speed of light, just as the second postulate states. However, an observer 'stationary' with respect to your pre-acceleration frame would see you moving at 99.99999% of c, with the light slowly moving away from you.

Question: How are things sticky?
Answer: Adhesives and other sticky substances contain protein molecules that bond with the molecules of the surface they are spread upon by entering the pores and spaces of the material. Therefore, smooth surfaces such as glass are hard to attach to because there aren't any pores for molecules to enter.

Question: Twitter Valuation
Answer: It's an estimated value of the worth of the company. For instance, if BigAdvertisingFirm buys up Twitter, they instantly have access to all those millions of users.

Question: How does honey never expire?
Answer: Its acidity, the lack of water, and the presence of hydrogen peroxide are the factors that cause honey to be so incredibly shelf-stable for pretty much eternity. 

Here's some reading on it:

_URL_0_

Question: What physically determines the way your voice sounds?
Answer: The allele pairs in your genes which influence the way your body is formed including vocal cords and throat shape size etc.

Unfortunately I do not have scientific proof to back anything up someone else will have a more professional answer but here is what I found.

_URL_0_

Question: What happens to people who are insomniacs, and why do they struggle so much to fall asleep?
Answer: For one thing, there might be an underlying medical condition going on -- imagine trying to sleep well with chronic pain that's always happening. Or if you have an anxiety problem. Those things don't go away when you're trying to sleep.

People might also have poor sleep hygiene. This means keeping some good, consistent practices with your sleep the same way you would do with things like showering or brushing your teeth. Try to go to bed at the same time every day, and limit any activities in bed other than sleeping or having sex. If you spend a lot of time in bed watching TV or whatever, your brain learns to associate the space with things other than sleep. If your brain associates the space with only sleep, you'll be more likely to fall asleep well -- the same way you might start to feel hungry after walking past a restaurant, even if you weren't hungry before. Stuff like exercising and avoiding caffeine later in the day helps too.

Question: If cigarettes contain things like arsenic, butane, cadmium, ammonia, and formaldehyde, how can people smoke then everyday for years without dying within the first few weeks?
Answer: There is no such thing as lethal or safe substances. There are only lethal and safe doses. Water can be toxic if you drink enough of it.

Question: How exactly radiation affect human body?
Answer: Energetic neutrons, and gamma rays and x-rays (both forms of light), go blasting off and strike molecules in your cells. This has the effect of physically breaking them apart, a la the neutron, or breaking covalent bonds as the rays do. Enough of this can just kill your cell outright. But if you just get the occasional strike against a DNA molecule, now you have a physically broken piece of DNA. If it doesn't kill the cell, DNA has an interesting property in that it can reassemble itself. The problem is it doesn't always go back the right way. Often, this creates a cancerous cell and your body will identify and destroy it. Sometimes, your immune system can't "see" the cell as cancerous and it's accidentally allowed to run rampant. More radiation is used in chemotherapy to kill the cells in the same way they were made cancerous in the first place.

Question: Why is flossing considered more important than brushing?
Answer: I'm not a dentist, but from what I've been told by my dentist, flossing reduces bleeding gums more than brushing. Bleeding gums are actually quite a problem, aside from being gross, because they add stress to the heart. So bleeding gums can actually contribute negatively, and sometimes severely, to the health of your circulatory system. Since you can live without teeth, but not a heart, I think that's the big point. 

Less dramatic is that flossing does prevent cavities in places where cavities are more prone, like between teeth and in the very back. These places are cleaned less efficiently by a brush.

Also I've heard flossing does positive things for the health of your gums which brushing can't do.

I also have heard that what the other commenters have said about how everybody brushes but many people don't floss, so the dental industry makes flossing a bullet point, is true as well.

Question: - Why taking long showers or brushing your teeth with the faucet open waste water?
Answer: The source of your clean water and the location where your wastewater ends up are rarely the same.  Water treatment plants can recapture SOME wastewater, but the rest is lost, dumped into the sea (where we don't get drinking water from) or downstream for the very reason that we don't want sewage in our water supply.  It depends greatly on where you live, but commonly fresh water comes from snow melt and rainfall replenishing natural or man-made aquifers, and not being drawn from a river.

Question: How are KFC's 11 secret herbs and spices still a secret?
Answer: It's not worth it.  At this point, KFC could probably publish the exact recipe on the walls of their restaurants and it wouldn't make a difference.  No one is going to create a chain restaurant to make the exact same thing that another chain restaurant does with no changes at all.  If someone wanted to make money selling KFC fried chicken, it would be far easier and more cost efficient to just franchise a KFC.

Question: How come educational channels like history and discovery do not show educational things anymore?
Answer: Educational shows no longer draw enough viewers to pay the bills for the upkeep of the channel.

Question: How CDs/DVDs Store and Read Data, and Why a Scratch Can Ruin Everything
Answer: CDs and DVDs are types of *optical discs*.  The CD/DVD is covered with a large number of little holes, called pits.  A tightly focused laser shines onto the surface of the CD, and depending on whether it hits a pit or a flat part, the intensity changes.  A sensor reads that intensity change, and translates it into a 1 or a 0.  That stream of 1's and 0's is then turned into music or video.

Question: what did ancient humans do with umbilical cords during birth?
Answer: The umbilical cord is connected to the placenta, the interface between the fetal and maternal bloodstreams, which is given the folksy name 'afterbirth' -- because the woman ejects it shortly after the birth, within the hour. Thing weighs about a pound too. Isn't giving birth beautiful?

Once that's out, the baby is entirely detached. The umbilical cord will fall off the baby's end in a few days, leaving behind the navel, or 'belly button', assuming you don't cut it.

Edit:

Did I mention [you can eat it?](_URL_0_)

Not Safe For...well...anything.

The real question is, is it vegan?

Question: Why do we use fresh water for our sewage?
Answer: It's easier and cheaper to have a single delivery system to all buildings than it is to develop and install a second identical system for non-potable water delivery.

You're also avoiding the inevitable mishaps when people confuse the two.

Question: I broke up with my GF yesterday, it was my own decision because the relationship was at a point we both were unsatisfied. Why do I want her back, even though my brain says it's better this way? (It lasted over 4 years)
Answer: Sorry to hear that. Going through a break up is hard.
Firstly, and its been mentioned is that love is a form of drug. I believe, going from memory its oxytocin but i may be wrong. Simply put, your body does get a 'high' from your partner and breaking up leads to 'withdrawal', unfortunately. There a lot of variables as well, ive read before that that when you form a relationship with somone, your personalities can start to blend to the extent where they become your other half so to speak. I personally found that i picked up a few traits, from my 5 year relationship, so that adds fuel to the fire. 
I definitely feel for you and you partner. Not a good place to be. If you (or anyone else) need help, we're all here for ya. Take it easy champ.

Question: Why do many email services charge per email address/account, while most Instant Messengers let you have unlimited users?
Answer: You want to charge a company as much as that company is willing to pay for a certain service, and this is usually directly proportional to how big that company is, and a great way to measure corporate size is how employee count, and a company usually has one email account per employee plus a few extra emails for departments, etc. A good rule of thumb is 1.05 * employee count.

Question: What happens after someone escapes prision
Answer: The person who escaped tends to spend most of the time trying to get further from the prison while the police try and find them and then put them back in.

Question: Why can't we build a giant heat proof bulldozer to put out forest fires?
Answer: The bulldozer would run into tress and quickly be unable to move.

Certainly they can mow down small trees but large trees are very hard to topple (consider the force of wind they must resist and you get a sense of it).

Question: Why can't I become the President of the United States (I was born in Canada)?
Answer: The founders were nervous that a foreign power would attempt to control the country by getting one of their own elected president. Hamilton wrote in the Federalist Papers:

 > Nothing was more to be desired than that every practicable obstacle should be opposed to cabal, intrigue, and corruption. These most deadly adversaries of republican government might naturally have been expected to make their approaches from more than one querter, but chiefly from the desire in foreign powers to gain an improper ascendant in our councils. How could they better gratify this, than by raising a creature of their own to the chief magistracy of the Union?

Also, if we let, say, Arnold Schwarzenegger become president, and some Austrian rose to become a belligerent European dictator (unrealistic, I know), there'd be concern that he wouldn't necessarily act in the best interests of the United States.

Question: How do tempered glass screen protectors stop phone glass from breaking (cracking)?
Answer: It's kinda like how sidewalks and asphalt work. You've got this outside barrier that breaks first, which provides enough resistance to stop a deeper or more severe break from happening.
Most breaks are spiderweb fractures, a small part of the screen is damaged and it just keeps getting worse. Well, by using a screen protector, you can keep the actual screen from getting these surface cracks that weaken the glass, and so only the very cheap screen protector gets damaged and subsequently breaks.

Question: How does the rule of 3 work?
Answer: [You're going to have to be more specific.](_URL_0_)

Question: Was there any form of birth control used at brothels in pre-moderrn times? How did women prevent getting pregnant?
Answer: There have been known herbs that can be used to induce abortions - such as Pennyroyal, that would be mixed with wine / tea.

Question: Does the shape of the Pentagon actually help the U.S. military?
Answer: The design of it was to maximize office space while minimizing travel time on foot from one side to the other. The theory was for better reaction times and message delivery.

Question: If I'm thinking in english, what were thoughts like before we developed language?
Answer: Here is a quote from Hellen Keller recalling what her thought processes were like before she was introduced to language. Sure, it's not *exactly* what you're looking for, but I think it provides some insight. [*The World I Live In* by Hellen Keller, Page 37](_URL_0_)

 > Before my teacher came to me, I did not know that I am. I lived in a world that was a no-world. I cannot hope to describe adequately that unconscious, yet conscious time of nothingness. I did not know that I knew aught, or that I lived or acted or desired. I had neither will nor intellect. I was carried along to objects and acts by a certain blind natural impetus. I had a mind which caused me to feel anger, satisfaction, desire...

 > When I wanted anything I liked,--ice-cream, for instance, of which I was very fond,--I had a delicious taste on my tongue (which, by the way, I never have now), and in my hand I felt the turning of the freezer. I made the sign, and my mother knew I wanted ice-cream. I "thought" and desired in my fingers.

Thought without language, at least from what can be gleaned from Hellen Keller's own observations, is made up of basic desires, habits, and emotions (anger and satisfaction). Complex thoughts aren't really possible without a language to build ideas out of. So thoughts like you're having, even by just asking a question such as the one you posted are really only possible because you have a language that you can think with.

Question: What is the Eastern philosophical concept of Wu?
Answer: The short version is that it's the concept of everything being interconnected and interdependent. This, in turn, is supposed to help people be more aware of how their actions affect others, because other people's actions affect them as well. 

A similar concept is the "butterfly effect", where a tiny change leads to bigger and bigger consequences, often too big for the original actor to realize.

Question: How are instincts inherited to the following generation and is it possible to modificate and/ or create them?
Answer: As far as I know, no one truly understands how instincts work. It is one thing to have a reflex, but there are complex behaviors (such as baby sea turtles crawling towards the ocean) are much tougher to explain. 

There was  a recent neuroscience paper that came out that may help. Basically, they fear conditioned some male animals to a certain smell (i.e. made them scared of the smell).  They then had these males sire offspring. The offspring learned to be afraid of the smell much quicker than would normally be the case. They examined their olfactory system, and found that these offspring had increased receptors that were specific to the smell their Dad's had been made afraid of. Basically, making the Dad's afraid of a smell resulted in their offspring being particularly sensitive to that smell.

This is called epigenetics: when experiences result in altered gene expression.  Therefore, it is indeed possible, in a sense, for a "memory" to be passed on, although it isn't the memory per se, it is altered gene expression.

Question: Why was 911 selected as the number to dial in case of emergency?
Answer: They wanted a short, easy to remember number, but also one that was not as likely to be accidentally dialed. It also needed to be fast to dial during the era of rotary phones when the system was first designed. So a 3 digit number starting with 9 and then using the fastest to dial numbers of 1 was chosen.

Question: How do selective hiring companies not get sued?
Answer: Because their business model is built around having females. It's like how Hooters can hire only attractive women because they're technically hiring models who just happen to waitress, and being attractive is a job qualification for being a model. Or how a man can't claim discrimination that a strip club won't hire him.

Question: Flashing a Verizon Phone to get Prepaid Unlimited 3G.
Answer: It is stealing a paid service, one way or another, likely by cloning one paid phone.

Question: Tourettes
Answer: I have Tourette's.  First off - curse words are a very small minority.  Most tics are physical.  It's kind of like an itch, or a compulsion.  It's like a heat in my joints that gets worse and worse until I give in.  Being distracted helps a lot and it is much worse when I'm stressed or hyper,etc.  

I do have some vocal tics but they have never been curse words, more like hums or whistles or that clucking sound with your tongue.  Most of my tics involve popping joints, cracking knuckles, stretching limbs, "blinking hard" or other subtle movements.  

I'm 30 now and pretty good at hiding most of these while still scratching that itch.  There is medication that helps but the side effects are too much for me and I find it worse than just dealing with the tics.

Question: Why is there urgency for the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates and why do recent jobs numbers prevent it?
Answer: [EDIT] tl;dr - Urgency to raise rates comes from the financial industry which stands to make money from higher rates.  Job numbers prevent that by speaking directly to the legislative mandate of The Federal Reserve not the personal interests of bankers.

First of all, low and high are relative terms so when we say that rates are currently low what we mean is that, by historical standards, rates are lower than they typically have been.  

We're better off asking the question "what should the rate be in our current economy?"  The answer to that question is likely variable and changing over time.  It's difficult to say what it should be, and different people are going to have different opinions.  Often times those opinions are motivated or colored by personal interests and biases.

One method for identifying if rates are currently too low or too high is to look at inflation.  If rates are too low, inflation begins to grow and run away at an increasing pace.  If rates are too high inflation lowers and we start to see signs of potential deflation.  Using inflation in this capacity helps to mitigate pre-existing bias that we might otherwise have about what we believe rates should be.

The "urgency" to raise rates is coming largely out of a single sector of the professional class, namely:  people in the financial industry who would stand to gain (at least in the short term) from higher interest rates.  They would get to charge more on the loans they're making and consequently enjoy higher profit margins.  These individuals have a lot of money, power, influence, and most notably the ears of media personnel.  Their opinion is often reported as near-fact with little to no contra-evidence printed.  

(In defense of the media, economics is hard and confusing and reporting it earnestly and accurately ends up with boring publications like The Economist.  It doesn't work well on the front page of _URL_1_).

It's not well reported in the news but their opinions are not widely held among the professional economic community.  Here is a recent article by Paul Krugman highlighting exactly that (Krugman is a well respected, Nobel-winning economics professor.  His opinion should carry at least as much weight as anyone else's in the industry).  _URL_2_
His point is that inflation is still super low, in fact lower than the Fed's own stated inflationary target.


The simple fact is that there is little appetite outside of one vocal and influential group for raising rates.  There is nothing in the empirical data suggesting that our economy or the global markets "want" rates higher.  Inflation is low and US Bonds continue to perform well on the world markets.  The only urgency comes from the fact that rates have been so much lower than historical standards, and for so long, people just feel like it's time to raise them.

The reason job numbers prevent it has to do with something known as the "dual mandate".  _URL_0_.  

Basically, the Federal agency in charge of these rates is the Federal Reserve (i.e. The Fed).  The Fed has a legislative mandate to maximize employment while maintaining a moderate inflation rate (for economic reasons, minimizing inflation is bad.  We want some small amount of inflation).  Essentially, as is noted in the article above, they don't know what the employment rate should be so they do things to try to lower it until inflation starts to rise in response.  At that point they know it's as low as the economy will allow and they stop stimulating to avoid run-away inflation.

Again, it ties back to inflation as the key indicator about what the Fed should be doing.  As /u/mbilical noted, low rates generally means business borrowing, growing, and hiring more.  If there is no inflationary pressure to slow that process then most economists feel the Fed should continue to keep rates low in order to stimulate economic growth and hiring.

Question: why does the quick-E-mart on the corner sell copper scrubbers with the drug paraphernalia?
Answer: Copper scrubbers are an essential part of a homemade crack pipe.

You buy one of those little roses in a glass tube, take the ends off, toss the rose, shove a little copper scrubber in, insert crack, and light.

Question: Why do we get shakey?
Answer: Electrolytes. Salt, magnesium, and the such... Like an engine will shudder on Empty with no fuel.

Question: How do they manage to find precise recordings to make those composite/mash-up videos, of hundreds of clips of a person speaking certain words, to make them sing a song, etc?
Answer: I've actually also wondered the same thing and I think I have an answer. I don't know this for certain but I imagine that what the people do is find several speeches by the figure they are using and then find the transcripts of the speeches. This is not normally very difficult particularly for public figures such as the president. They then just need to ctrl-f the speech to find the words they want and then go to that location of the video. They can then cut that part of the video out and rinse and repeat. It's still time-consuming but it's much faster than just blindly watching hundreds of videos.

Question: Why are we more attracted to a person when they're tan?
Answer: Are we? This seems much more like a personal preference than a universal truth. I searched for your question and found an answer [here](_URL_0_).

Question: What is happening in Turkey?
Answer: A lot. Maybe a bit of a non specific question that.

Question: Why do we have accents?
Answer: Speech and how it's learned is basically the longest running game of telephone. Things get passed down and eventually someone hears something slightly wrong and says it slightly wrong or with different emphasis. It keeps going for generations and impacts the population. 

Since populations of people (Southern, Texas, New York, etc) aren't in contact with each other as much as they are in contact with themselves, each one changes at different rates and in different ways. 

Specifically for the US, since there are so many cultures, people tend to settle together. And they bring their language with them. That language has certain ways they pronounce letter combinations and vowels, so when they learn to speak English, they learn with a mix of their native language in it. 

And it just keeps mutating like that over generations.

Question: Why can blank CD's hold the same length of music at different bitrates?
Answer: > why can a CD that can hold 80 minutes of 320 kbps not otherwise hold 200 minutes of 128 kbps?


Because CD audio doesn't have a bitrate the way MP3s do.  It's raw, uncompressed audio (essentially the same as a .wav file on your computer).  So both the 128 kbps mp3 and the 320 kbps mp3 will be uncompressed and converted to wav format before being written to the CD, at which point their equivalent bitrates are the same.

Question: Why is the presence of complex organic molecules discovered on Comet 67P and other objects not enough evidence to definitively say that life exists beyond Earth?
Answer: Complex organic molecules can form and exist without life. By complex, we are talking simple amino acids, nitrogenous bases, super-simple polycarbons. These are not the same as the long polymers you would get from carbon-based life.

Question: In video editing, what's the difference between Drop-Frame timecode, and Non-Drop-Frame timecode?
Answer: In non-drop-frame, there are exactly 30 frames in every second of footage, i.e., the timecode endings for every second go

  :00, :01, :02, ... :29.

You should only use non-drop-frame timecodes if your footage is 30.000 frames per second.

In drop-frame, the first second of every minute not divisible by ten misses the first two frames, i.e., 54 seconds every hour have only 28 timecode endings like 

  ;02, ;03, ;04, ... ;29

Thus 108 timecodes are missing per hour.  Otherwise there would be 108,000 timecodes per hour so the drop-frame system removes exactly 1 in 1000 timecodes.

Note that no frames are dropped, just that some timecodes are missing so that frame 00;01;59;29 is followed by frame 00;02;00;02.  Semicolons are used instead of colons to highlight what's going on.

This is done because NTSC has only about 29.97 frames per second.  In fact NTSC is exactly 1 part in 1001 short of 30 frames per second so the drop-frame notation, using 1 part in 1000, is not exactly right, but it's close enough.

Question: Why is there is demand for high frames per second in video games, but it's ok for movies to stick to 24 fps? Is there a visible difference between the two mediums?
Answer: Movie motion isn't designed to feel completely real, it has a bigger than life dreamlike feel that comes from the motion blur that occurs at 24 frames per second.  Most games on the other hand are trying to be immersive and give you the feeling of being there and that requires the motion to be smoother. 

While not a direct game to movie comparison, watch a movie and then watch a soap opera or a late night talk show. You can clearly see and feel a difference and that is because the movie with its dreamy 24fps and the soap or talk show which is running at a more natural 30fps.

Question: What does it mean: "underwriting a security" in regards to banking and finance?
Answer: When corporation wants to raise money from the financial markets they contact an investment bank to issue a security (e.g. a stock or a bond). For example, if ACME corp wants to raise $1B of capital through a bond offering they will call up an investment bank or a group of investment banks (called a syndicate) and hire them to "underwrite that security". Here's what the transaction looks like.  

1. ACME gets their $1B of cash up front directly from their Investment Bank
2. The Investment Bank Receives the securities, in this case, bond certificates from ACME corporation agreeing to pay back the $1B over a set period of time with pre-determined interest payments (coupons)
3. The bank uses its sales and trading network to re-sell the bonds to its network of institutional investors. They typically do this at a slight mark-up, but the bank also assumes the risk of the bonds not selling well and they will occasionally (read: very rarely, but still a very real possibility) lose money on the deal. 
4. The bank also typically agrees to support the price of the debt offering in the secondary market by providing liquidity for investors up to a certain point. 

There are lots of nuances to this process, but that covers the basics.

Question: How fast are things moving in the human body?
Answer: it varies depending on what part of "everything" you're talking about.

The main things, though, are the impulses fired from the brain down through the nervous system, which take some fraction of a millisecond, and the time it takes for your muscles to move your hand, which depends on the strength of your muscles, mass of your arm, and a few other factors.

Most of the rest of your body isn't really involved beyond what's already going on; blood is pumping through your arm at what is probably a very-slightly-higher-than-resting rate due to the light activity, but it was pumping through there anyway, it just sped up a tiny bit since you weren't at a rest anymore. 

The muscles in your legs likely don't move at all, nor the muscles in your abs. Your digestive tract will continue digesting whatever's in there at its normal rate under most circumstances, unless your fingernails cause you to panic and have an adrenal response that temporarily slows/stops digestion and potentially voids your bowels.

Question: Can ship execute swift maneuvers in space if it has a lot of power? Or will it always move slowly?
Answer: More power can easily translate to faster maneuverability. Modern spaceships use small thrusters placed around the exterior of the ship to turn. When a thruster is facing anywhere other than directly towards or away from the center of mass, activating it will change the direction that the object is facing. You might compare this to a tugboat maneuvering a large cargo shop into a dock. The tugboat will push on say the back left of the shop turning the front left. Now if you replaced the tugboat with an aircraft carrier, the cargo ship is going to move faster when it hits. So yes more powerful manuvering thrusters will speed up your turning and execution speed.

Question: How are we able to make an emergency call on a cellphone with no service or provider?
Answer: I studied a little bit of this in college, and the other answers I'm seeing may not be what you're looking for.

Your phone, sim card or no, is talking to all the towers around you all the time if its able to. Usually the conversation is something along the lines of:

* Cell Phone: "Hi Tower!"
* Tower: "Are you a Verizon/AT & T/Sprint/etc phone?"
* Cell Phone: "Nope!"
* Tower: "Then we have nothing more to talk about."

However, all towers are listening for a very specific packet of information a phone spits out when it tries to put through an emergency call. This packet precludes all the questions a tower might ask and means that if its at all possible, the tower will route that call. When you make an emergency call on a phone the conversation goes more like:

* Cell Phone: "Hi Tower!"
* Tower: "Are you a Verizon/AT & T/Sprint/etc phone?"
* Cell Phone: "This is an EMERGENCY!!"
* Tower: "Oh, ok let me put you through."

This also means that if a tower is heavily trafficked, like one in a big city, it will give priority to that emergency call.

Could calling be free? Functionally probably. You're seeing more plans that are dirt cheap and have unlimited calling and texting. Its the *data* thats the big money maker. But at the end of the day, the towers still need to be built, maintained, and connected to networks. So you still need to pay *something*.

TL;DR: When you make an emergency call the tower handles it very differently, bypassing a lot of artificial roadblocks that prevent you from making normal calls.

Question: Considering various backgrounds and experience differentiation, how would an Equal Wages - Gender Wage Gap law work?
Answer: The wages of every employee is publicly posted in the workplace.  Everyone knows what everyone else makes.

The rest will sort itself out.

Question: Why and when exactly was the death penalty reinstated in the US after being abolished in 1972? Is it really because "murder rates soared" following its abolition, as some claim?
Answer: The death penalty wasn't abolished in 1972.  Instead, the Supreme Court ruled that certain *specific inconsistent applications* of the death penalty violated the "cruel and unusual punishment" portion of the constitution.  So the states voluntarily suspended the death penalty while they worked to bring their policy in line with the requirements set forth in the justices' opinions.

Question: What happens if I use a top loader washing detergent in a front loader machine?
Answer: I did this by accident once a year or two ago and a giant meteor crashed into Russia.

Question: How do scientists know there are x unknown animal species if they weren't discovered yet?
Answer: If I recall from ecology, basically what happens is that you can chart how many new species have been found each year (adjusted for how many people/man-hours were spent actively looking), and the resulting graph shows a gentle curve and leveling off over time - indicating a point in the future where it's flat (meaning we're not discovering any new species). So, the space between where we are and where that graph ends up going flat is a rough estimate of how many species we probably have left to find.

Question: How do we remember tastes?
Answer: Our sense of taste is closely related with the sense of smell, so much in fact, that if you have stuffed nose, things will start tasting bland.

Haven't heard about link with memory. Do you mean this [article](_URL_0_)? If so, it explains that we have preference for things from our childhood because they didn't kill us. There is no need of risking new stuff, if old stuff managed to get us that far.

Question: What's the difference between the Islamic State and the Taliban?
Answer: The answer is both yes and no. Both groups have religiously influenced ideologies that are fused with cultural/ethnic group identities.

The Taliban are ethnically [Pashtun](_URL_1_), a tribe that predates modern states but that currently exists in Afghanistan. From the beginning, they were outwardly quite religious. Many of the Taliban's leaders were clerics or teachers (the roles are often combined). Still, it would be wrong to describe the Taliban like al-Qaeda, which is an almost exclusively religious group. Yes, the Taliban are Muslim. Yes, they practice a hard-liner brand of Islam influenced by [Wahhabism](_URL_0_). But they are also a very ethnic group with local interests and motivations. For example, the Taliban is deeply involved in the Afghan drug trade, which is *haram* (forbidden) in Islam.

Then we have ISIL/ISIS/IS. Once again, it would be wrong to simply label them as religious terrorists. They do indeed practice terrorism, and they do espouse an especially noxious brand of religiously motivated hatred. But the interesting thing about ISIS is that they do not always attempt to justify their actions on the basis of religion. Al-Qaeda, on the other hand, took pains to constantly rationalize their killings and atrocities through scripture. ISIS revels in its violence and brutality. There are exceptions, of course -- a recent IS pamphlet suggested that it would not be unlawful under sharia law (Islamic jurisprudence) to rape non-Muslim women.

IS is difficult to describe because it too is deeply influenced by secular elements in society. Many of the young men fighting with IS today are Sunni. That's significant because Saddam was Sunni, and marginalized Iraqi Shiites despite the fact that they were the overwhelming majority of Iraq. When the regime fell, the government purged their ranks of Sunnis altogether, leaving a large number of well-trained and dissatisfied Iraqis out on the streets. That was a recipe for the early years of the insurgency in Iraq. Sunnis were eventually reincorporated into Nouri Malaki's government, but then mostly expelled as Malaki tried to consolidate his power. As you can tell, there is a lot of sectarian, tribal, and local animosity in the society that transcends religious differences.

Both Iraq and Syria have relatively robust traditions of secularist regimes -- the Alawites and the Baathists (ruling parties of Syria and Iraq respectively) clamped down on religious government and emphasized nationalism and pan-Arabism. This is in stark contrast to the situation in Afghanistan, where the idea of a "state" per se never really took hold.

TL;DR: IS and the Taliban are two very different groups with very different compositions. They should not be understood as purely religious organizations, but groups that are influenced by their regional origins as well.

Question: How come on the show "Drugs Inc." they can interview a drug dealer without him getting arrested (when he clearly admits to his crimes)
Answer: Saying you've committed a crime at some point isn't enough evidence to convict you of a crime.  He could just say in court that he was saying it for entertainment, or fun, or was joking, or any of a million things.

Question: How did they send people into space in the early days of space exploration without computers and GPS technology?
Answer: Well, there were computers, though they were far more primitive. Often, this meant trajectories had to be calculated by hand.

Navigation was another matter. Though GPS didn't exist, ground stations could locate space probes based on radio signals, similar to Gps. Otherwise astronauts had to use a sextant to navigate by the stars.

Question: How people make a living off investing
Answer: 1. They don't make steady income off investments... it's an irregular earning pattern. They may have a great day and make thousands or they may have a bad day and lose thousands.

2. Options are contracts to buy or sell stock at a certain price on a certain day in the future. They go up and down in value depending on the value of the underlying stock and likelihood of the option being "in the money", ie. paying out on the expiration day. They can swing much more volatility than the underlying stock, and as a result can pay off big. But they can also move the other way and because of the limited time horizon can also very quickly lose everything invested. 

3. No, it's not possible to start with $1000. Even $100,000 is virtually impossible to invest  as a primary means of income. Making a living off investing is a classic "takes money to make money" endeavor.

Question: Why does counting sheep help you go to sleep?
Answer: It is more a cliche about counting sheep being boring and tiring than actually being an effective sleep aid.

Question: If diet coke has 0 calories and 0 sugar, why is it still unhealthy?
Answer: Because the citric acid in soft drinks deteriorates your teeth, and messes up your bodies natural acidity. As well as the sugar replacement Aspertame, which tricks not only your taste buds but your body into thinking it's real sugar, causing unnecessary insulin to be produced. Research is still inconclusive on how bad Aspertame really is though.

Question: Are there cultures where marriage doesn't exist?
Answer: I'm hoping somebody will name one for you but my money is on "no" — see e.g. _URL_1_ — mainly because marriage can appear in [so many different forms](_URL_0_).

Question: Why aren't there hedge funds for middle class / poor people?
Answer: Hedge funds can only accept a certain number of customers by law, so they will generally only take wealthy people. A lot of them have minimum buy ins.

Question: . In the big picture what will raising the age to buy a gun from 18 to 21 really accomplish?
Answer: To be perfectly honest, young people are dumb, impulsive  &  have a poor understanding of the consequences of their actions.  The general principle behind gun control is to make it harder for impulsive people to get their hands on guns - if something is illegal to purchase and now costs 3x what it did when it was legal, you're less likely to buy it for stupid shit.

Question: Why do Kenyans consistently outperform other nationalities in long distance running?
Answer: One thing to keep in mind is that the Kenyans who are winning are doing just a few minutes better than the top runners from other countries - it's not as though Kenyans are significantly faster.

But there are a lot of reasons they're good at marathons (Ethiopians too).

For one, Kenya is a relatively poor country. This means a lot of things:

1) Most of the jobs are subsistence farming, i.e. a very physical activity ([Wikipedia](_URL_0_) says 75% of working Kenyans made their living on the land). As such, the average Kenyan is in good physical shape.

2) Because it's a relatively poor country, there isn't a lot of obesity like there is in other countries. The average Kenyan has a lower BMI.

3) There isn't a lot of infrastructure, so they travel by foot. Running is faster than walking, and if you have a long distance to go, running saves time. So the average Kenyan has some experience with running to begin with.

4) Unrelated to their economy, Kenya has a higher altitude than many countries.

If you combine all of these things (better physical shape, lower BMI, plenty of physical activity, and a higher altitude), you end up with a group of folks with a high VO2 max. This means these folks can absorb more oxygen when breathing, which is key to marathoning, or doing any physical activity for an extended period of time.

So that explains why they're good long-distance runners.

As to why they compete in so many marathons, remember again that Kenya is a relatively poor country with very few non-farming jobs, and very little by way of secondary education. Not too many ways to make a better life for yourself. But if you know that you're a good runner, and other people from your country have gone off and won marathons (many of which have monetary prizes!), it sounds like a good thing to practice towards and be good at.

Question: How are naked four-legged mountain goats successfully able to traverse mountainous cliffs, while two-legged humans require climbing gear?
Answer: Well, they're not naked (they have hair) and they've got four feet instead of two... which is a help, not a hindrance.

They also have uniquely designed hooves to help them balance and climb over rough terrain, and they're far more dexterous than we are. They're also acclimated to the habitat.

Question: Why aren't we able to mark SMS's as unread?
Answer: That would actually be very easy. All you need is a button that does the opposite of the function that marks the message as read.

I could try seeing if I can modify an open source messenger to mark the messages as unread.

One thing you have to think about though is how the unread property is stored: a developer could either store the read or unread property in each individual message or they could store the number of messages received from a contact since the last time their conversation was open and just tell the user the last (x) messages were unread. In that case, you have to either mark all those messages as unread or completely redesign the messenger.

Question: ELI5: Why are internet entrepreneurs like Jeff Bezos of Amazon or Evan Spiegel so much richer than major real estate developers?
Answer: One of the key things to remember is to exclude this bias for "internet entrepreneurs"  and think of the businesses behind it.

Bezos (Amazon) operates a world wide insanely effective and complicated logistics company, perhaps the best in the world!  They get tons of stuff from A to B, everywhere in the world, easy, cheaply, and fastly.  Thats what Amazon is, its a logistics company. This has incredible value.  Many consumers get confused about Amazon, they say "oh i buy stuff there, oh i watch amazon video or have a tablet by them". These companies have existed forever, there have been catalog companies and tech an entertainment companies.  Amazon is none of those, its all just to support and use their incredible logistics business.

Snapchat is an ad platform.  Just like say running an ad on the walking dead or billboard on the side of the road or during hot Beatz 106.3 FM's top 40 morning drive show. It's just a method to advertise products.  Advertising is big businesses.

Question: How do laser guided missiles work?
Answer: The laser illuminates the target with a frequency of light not typically abundant in ambient light. The missile has sensors to detect this frequency and thus can look for the bright spot, adjusting its fins to aim for it.

Question: How does lost money affect our economy?
Answer: The power of the dollar will increase, in what is essentially deflation. The quantity of goods and services produced hasn't changed, but the number of dollars circulating to purchase those goods and services has decreased. This means that each dollar will get you a greater quantity of goods and services.

While deflation seems good from an individual's standpoint, from the perspective of the overall market it is usually considered bad because it encourages people to hold on to their money rather than spend it. Thus, the government is likely to take corrective action to restore the money supply.

Question: how does scraping scissors/blade along a ribbon make it curl?
Answer: When you run a blade along a ribbon, you are using force to stretch the polymers beyond their elastic limit causing permanent deformation. (Think of pulling a spring too far, and it doesn't go back to it's original state.) This causes one side of the ribbon to be longer than the other. The shorter side appears to be "contracted" while the longer side appears to be "expanded" this causes a spiral, which is the curl.

Question: What does it mean when someone "jailbreaks" a phone?
Answer: Jailbreaking is just gaining "root" access to the phone, giving you control over ALL files.

Once you have that, you can do a bunch of things.  You can remove programs like the Blockbuster app, or you can go further by replacing the entire interface with another one, like CyanogenMod or whatever you happen to like.

It is not illegal (Apple tried to claim it was, and the courts ruled against them).  Your phone provider won't touch your phone if it's jailbroken, because they have no idea what you've done to screw up your phone.  But you can flash your phone back to its original state if you ever need to have it serviced, and they are unlikely to know (unless you totally kill it and don't have access to re-flash it).

Jailbreaking is popular, because people like to have control over their stuff and not be forced to take up limited storage for apps like Blockbuster, or they want Ice Cream Sandwich for their phone and their provider isn't going to give it to them, or they want to be able to provide a wireless hotspot without paying an outrageous $30/month, or whatever.

Question: how is music and movies digitally remastered?
Answer: Older movies (pre-2002) were almost all on 35mm. 35mm when scanned has a max resolution around that of 4K. Plus, they also use Photoshop like programs to correct scratches and other imperfections, as well as the color, they might remaster the audio as well.  
  
[Here is how they did it with Jaws.](_URL_0_)

Question: Why Ecuador gave Snowden travel pass and now says it was a mistake?
Answer: Most likely because the US government is putting pressure on them in the terms of trade restrictions

Question: How long after birth do eyeballs grow, if at all?
Answer: > The vertical measure, generally less than the horizontal distance, is about 24 mm among adults, at birth about 16–17 millimeters (about 0.65 inch). The eyeball grows rapidly, increasing to 22.5–23 mm (approx. 0.89 in) by three years of age. By age 13, the eye attains its full size. The typical adult eye has an anterior to posterior diameter of 24 millimeters, a volume of six cubic centimeters (0.4 cu. in.),[3] and a mass of 7.5 grams (weight of 0.25 oz.).

Quoted off of Wikipedia: _URL_0_

    
tl;dr: Our eyes are generally 16-17 mm at birth, rapidly grow to about 22.5-23mm by age 3, and finish growing at about 24mm at age 13.

Question: Why did silent films exist? Don't microphones pre-date the video camera?
Answer: Films were recorded on - you guessed it - *film*, which predates modern microphones. While the technology to record and replay sounds did predate film, you weren't able to record them from multiple sources and on editable media. The most you could do was record music and play it on a record player along with the film.

Question: How do painkillers know which part of my body is in pain?
Answer: They don't - they inhibit pain receptors everywhere.  You only feel the pain relief in places where the pain receptors were firing, i.e. places that had pain.

Question: Why do video games rely on mega high resolution textures to appear more realistic, when a DVD movie can look far more realistic with a resolution of only 720x480?
Answer: **Professional video game environment artist here**

1.) Movies are recorded from a fixed camera angle for each shot. This means that 4000 pixels on screen are always 4000 pixels, regardless of how many objects you have in a shot or how close up you get to them.

2.) Video games are interactive 3d worlds that you can move 'through'. This means game designers need to find a way to make every object that you can conceivably get up close to, from the gun in your hand all the way to the tree on top of that far off mountain, look good up close. To exacerbate things further, the objects are 3d, which means that every surface needs to be covered with pixels even if you can't currently see it, because you 'might'.  

*There are things that can be done to help this, like 'streaming' textures in and out of 'memory' when you don't see them, but as a general rule, unless there's a load screen, everything you can see in the world that you can reach must have an ultra HD texture in case you get right up close to it. 

**Second edit: A lot of ppl have been asking about how I got into the industry or got this particular job, and even suggested I do an ama so I think that's what I'll do.  That said, I'll give a brief summary here:  
1. To be a game artist or 3d artist in general it helps 'a lot' to have a background in traditional art (drawing and painting mostly)  I got a 4 year degree in Illustration myself, but at least some training in the fundamentals is needed.

2. Then you'll want to learn the tools and techniques specific to content creation for current games. This would include a suite of digital sculpting, modeling, and texturing tools, as well as a game 'engine' to bring all your content together.  ZBrush, 3dsMax or Maya, Photoshop, and Substance Suite are the current standard, and either Unreal or Unity for your engine.  I took a post grad in game art which can be helpful for those who learn better from a guided structure, but not mandatory as YouTube is full of good educational content, and there are numerous excellent online forums and programs taught by pros to choose from (Art Station is a must).

3.  Work work work on your portfolio. Look at the pros and see where the bar's set, then aim for that. Don't work in a bubble! Developing a critical eye for your own work is key, but in order to do that you need feedback from those with a keener eye than you, so post you work online and ask for critiques. The importance of this can't be over stated.

4. Apply EVERYWHERE at first (Only for entry level jobs of course).  We all have our dream companies and games, but we all gotta start somewhere, so don't be afraid to aim high but don't be too proud to aim low either. Getting your first job and getting your foot in the door is far more important, as it means you will be getting paid to gain valuable experience in the field. Think of it as the first step of your new career that will inevitably wind you up at Naughty Dog or Sony!

Ok, that's it for now. Hope that satisfies!**

Question: Why is it that a temperature like 80°F seems really hot at the beginning of the Summer, but cool by the end?
Answer: *"Homeostasis : The ability of the body or a cell to seek and maintain a condition of equilibrium or stability within its internal environment when dealing with external changes"*


In the summer your body gets used to temperatures 90F+; The way it gets used to these temperatures is that your body tries to keep its core temperature as low as possible by releasing its internal heat - sweating more constantly, making you thirsty to drink more water, etc. In the winter the reverse is true; your body tries to keep all of its internal heat in as much as possible. 

So 80F in the summer is cold because your body is releasing its internal heat making it cooler in an already cool environment (compared to 90 degree weather). 80F in the winter will feel hot because your body is retaining all of its internal heat, therefore making you feel hotter.

Question: If I wake-up, have breakfast, and try to go back to sleep, my body resists by giving me fatigue, slight pain and an increased heart rate. Why does this happen?
Answer: Increased heart rate, sudden (little)burst of energy and wakefullness is normal. You just ate and you are starting the digestion process so your stomach needs more blood (Increased heart rate) for the cells to produces acids and do their stuff.

Now fatigue and slight pain? I'm no expert but I don't think it's usual

Discomfort maybe? If you lay down over a full stomach it can provoke some discomfort due to the pressure on it. I don't see other reason.

Question: Why don't fish freeze when the water above does?
Answer: The ice above forms an insulative barrier to keep in the heat from the Earth below and in a bizarre twist the water below the ice is actually slightly above freezing. Some fish, being cold blooded creatures adapt to this situation.

Question: Why you need to put cold water/anything cold on a burn.
Answer: Your body is a piece of meat that is being cooked and you need to stop it from cooking.

Question: How do snipers account for wind and gravity on long-range shots?
Answer: Lots and lots of practise in differing conditions. Long shots require elevation to compensate for the drop due to gravity, also you need fire at where they will be and not where they are now.

Question: Why Do Some Sites Require Credit Card CCV Numbers, and Others (like Amazon) Do Not?
Answer: The CVV2 number isn't *required* to charge the card, but it reduces the risk of fraud. If the transaction is fraudulent, the merchant might end up having to pay fees or fines to their payment processor, so merchants have an incentive to check CVV2s. But if they don't want to and are willing to risk more chargebacks, they can decide not to require it (which is what Amazon's done).

Question: How does a torrent ever get seeders if it can't be downloaded when it has 0 seeders?
Answer: The person that starts the torrent is the first seeder.

Question: If 12 years of war has cost us 6 trillion dollars, what have we GAINED financially? Is there a net gain or loss?
Answer: I am unable to provide a solid explanation on the 12 year war that you are referring to but, maybe I can provide a typical ELI5 explanation on war and whats the main benefit of it.

War is considered as a financial injection to a country that is one of the leading ones on the world. Why? Because every contry that achieved economical greateness inevitably faces overproduction. That basically means that the ammount of things a country produces exceeds the needs of its people. Once that happens, the overproduction should seize because keeping it going will result in loss of money. Limiting the production, means less employment, less investments and generaly leads to economic losses. War is one of the best solutions to that problem. War stimulates the need of various goods so basically you are getting rid of the overproduction. Now this is a very simplictic explanation in layman's language. If you research on the matter, things are far more complex. Overall, once a country gets to an economic standstill due to overproduction, war is one of the best alternatives as it plays the role of a stimulant.

Question: What is actually occurring in the brain during a seizure?
Answer: ELI5: As a person with epilepsy since October 23, 2001, and in the interest of keeping within the guidelines of ELI5, I can tell you you won't like the answer. To simply answer your question, the brain is randomly firing off electrical impulses throughout the brain. These impulses are triggering all the different reactions you would associate with those portions of the brain. If it's the part for a certain motor skill or muscle, then that part of the body will freeze or jerk, if it's in the part where the person's memories of scents are stored, they will think they smell something, if it's in the hippocampus then there's a good chance their short -term memory will get affected. So on and so forth.
Now, the part you might not, and I especially don't, like: They don't really know WHY it happens. Sure, they can associate it with certain things, like "Oh, you've had physical trauma to the brain and now you have seizures" or "Well your family has a history of epilepsy and therefore it's not surprising that you do" or as in my case "Well, you're a 9/11 survivor and you went through a great deal of trauma and that caused an imbalance in your brain". But in the end they don't really know what causes it. All they know is that for some reason, the brain decides to put on its own little light show of electrical impulses and when it does you can go from staring off for a few seconds, to doing the harlem shake on your back while pissing yourself, to actually dying (like my uncle two months ago). Now there are some instances where they can say, there are specific imbalances in a person's makeup that will trigger a seizure, and they can treat these, but for many epileptics, the condition is idiopathic.
The even better kicker is, that they're not even sure how some of the medicine they use to treat seizures work, just that they do.

EDIT: I originally posted that I had Epilepsy since 1999, which was the year my son was born and did NOT cause me to have seizures. They began in 2001, a little more than a month after 9/11. Sorry!

Question: Why is the Panama Paper's leak not being extensively covered by American news media outlets?
Answer: Because it's difficult to understand and boring. Now how about that Trump!? It's like he's sayin' whut we all thinking!

Question: How can I set up a corporation to purchase my (and everyone else’s) student loan debt and then dissolve the corporation via bankruptcy?
Answer: Nice try, but that won't work.  To buy up the debt, your corporation's going to need money.  It doesn't have any, so it'll have to either take out a loan from a bank, or sell shares in the corporation to raise some.  The bank and the investors are going to ask, "what's your business plan to pay us back?"  When you as the CEO say you don't have one because you're planning on declaring bankruptcy and sticking them with the debt, they'll kick you out of their office.

Question: Why was rasputin hated so much in imperial Russia?
Answer: I think it's a good idea to ask /r/history  :L

Question: Why Australia is protesting right now and what are they protesting over?
Answer: There are a number of issues that people were protesting, but overall it was to show that they feel that the current government is malicious and incompetent due to their policies, comments, and broken promises.

This is to do with things like education funding, worker's rights, public assets, social security, and the environment. 

It's not like what is happening to Turkey and Venezuela, no riots or clashes, just people showing that they are frustrated and scared with what the government intends to do.

Question: How can the US be trillions in debt but still able to spend over 600 billion in its army?
Answer: Most US debt is owed back to whoever owns it (mostly other parts of the US government and American citizens) on a set basis. The debt owners will be repaid according to a set schedule. There’s no super bank ready to foreclose on the US government or that controls all US debt. What this means is that the US has to set aside enough each year to pay its debt obligations for that year. This amount is less than what the US government brings in taxes each year, so the difference between the tax income and the amount used to service the debt is what pays for everything else (and there’s always borrowing more money if taxes aren’t enough).

Question: Why are you required to take the full course of antibiotics even if you start to feel better?
Answer: to ensure that the bacteria are all dead.  if you take antibiotics, and stop once you feel better, that doesn't ensure they are all dead.  those that survive, could develop resistances to the drugs.

Question: 'Modern humans' have existed for 130 to 300 thousand years. Why then do nearly all modern cultures seem to stem back no more than 6,000 years in origin?
Answer: Because we spent a very long time pissing about in small little family units getting eaten by wolves and fornicating like primitive pre-civilization primates do.

Civilization, or something that we could reasonably call the start of it, occurred around 12,000 years ago when humans finally stopped roaming in an area of the Fertile Crescent and started building stuff.  This marked the break point where humans started living in larger and larger communities in a single geographic area.  Slowly that led to the development of farming as a primary means of food production and the increase in food availability allowed division of labor which fast forward 12,000 years is why we both have computers and can sit here and talk on the internet.

Question: Why are most of the world's deserts covered in sand and not just dry soil?
Answer: Soil is largely made of sand (or other minerals), organic matter, water, and gas.  When you don't have precipitation, you lose out on organic matter and water, so you're left with minerals and rocks that form sand.

Question: What's the deal with same-sex marriage in the US?
Answer: Every time I read a post starting "what's the deal with ..." I imagine it's by Jerry Seinfeld.

Question: How are we making higher capacity HDDs year over year while keeping them the same size (or even making them smaller)?
Answer: Don't think of it like storing water in a bucket - water is a physical thing that has a more or less fixed size.

We aren't storing a physical thing, we're storing data. Data is abstract and in theory doesn't have any density or size in physical dimensions. Because of this data doesn't have to be stored in a fixed-sized container.

It's like writing. When I write out 'Hello, Dave' I'm not storing a physical entity on the paper, I'm storing the thought. Since it's just symbols I don't actually lose anything by writing it as this size^or^this^size
As long as it can be read by my reader - so in this case I can see it myself - it's the same amount of data stored in different amounts of space.

HDD technology is allowing for smaller 'fonts' that can still be read by the HDD.

Question: What's the best way to wash blueberries?
Answer: Stick 'em in the sieve, rinse 'em, an you're done.

Question: Why do our mouths salivate right before throwing up?
Answer: Since stomach contents are highly acidic, vomiting can be quite harmful for the throat, mouth and teeth and salivating helps to reduce this by diluting and rinsing. Saliva is also weakly alkaline, which helps to neutralize acid.

Question: Why are girls in middle school and high school almost always generally more mature than guys in high school and middle school?
Answer: They really are not. Girls tend to be socialized more so they may present the appearance of maturity more often, but they are in no way any more mature on average that boys their age are.

Question: What biologically is happening inside trees that causes them to bloom after a week of warm weather?
Answer: you quite answered by yourself:

Normally we have modeled the phenomenon with the [Degree day](_URL_0_) which is somewhat the energy taken in a certain period of time.

Of course the answer is much more complex of this *because* in reality there are many ways plants adopted to control the blooming, depending on where the habitat of the plant is.

second question: yes. A frost can kill the buds and this agronomically speaking could be very dangerous.

a lesser known fact is that in temperate zones, plant have *usually* evolved a mechanism by which they don't bloom or sprout if they do not get [enough "cold"](_URL_1_). This is a defence mechanism exactly against early warm days.

Question: why does urinating on a lemon tree help it grow?
Answer: Hold up.....WHA?????? lol


Ok I know nothing of this legend BUT i do know that urine will break down into Nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium with many trace minerals. so in that respect it is actually one hell of a good fertilizer for any plant. If the salts were an issue there would be many a dead tree in dog parks....

Give you an example. I have some huge rose bushes and people are always commenting on the size of the blooms and the strength of the rose smell. they always ask what I do and I say nothing special. but in reality I make sure I take at least one wizz a night in my garden lol. in this way they are getting raw pure nitrogen no different then the chemicals in miracle grow, and has the benefit of being natural which doesnt kill the soil microbes like chemical fertilizers do.


It's safe, it's free, and it's potential can match any commercial chemical fertilizers. (the Romans even made cleaning solutions from Urine)

_URL_0_

Question: Is it truly possible to make a computer program that deletes its entire self and any evidence it was there in the first place?
Answer: Remember that the executing program is in memory, so it can delete any copy off the disk or whatever it loaded from, then reboot the system, which clears the memory.

Question: Why don't US citizens get to vote about entering Syria?
Answer: Because the United States federal government is a Republic, not a Democracy.  In particular, it is not a direct democracy where citizens vote on everything.

Question: Coders/Developers of reddit. How exactly does my video game console detect that the disc a copy?
Answer: The pressed disk has data on it in special places that you can't write your own data to on a writeable disk.

Question: Movies and TV show cliche Cat and Dog as arch rival.e.g. Tom And Jerry. But, I see a lot of cat and dog living peacefully as pet in same house. What's behind rivalry cliche?
Answer: First, Tom and Jerry are a cat and mouse, not cat and dog (; 

In the wild, dogs DO tend to chase cats. In the wild, dogs will also chase mice, rats, squirrels, rabbits, birds, raccoon and hell, anything else that runs away. They're hunters, it's what they do. 

Now, since most of those are *not* well-established pets (yes, including rabbits) it doesn't surprise people when dogs chase them. 

But when dogs *live* with another creature - be it a cat *or* a rabbit or a bird or whatever - they can easily accept them as part of the Pack and recognise they are *not* prey. Especially if the dog was introduced to them at an early age. 

Note that this is not always true for every dog. Some dogs just never get along with any other animal - including other dogs.

Question: Why does the post office have a key to the apt. building but UPS/FedEx don't?
Answer: depends on the building I would imagine as my Fedex and UPS guys have access to the buildings also.

Question: How do rappers like Wiz Khalifa who do drugs on occasion, even tweet and post pictures of their drugs manage to not get arrested?
Answer: A picture doesn't actually tell you that they're doing drugs - not even a video is actual proof. All they would need to do is say, "I have an image and I was just acting. That wasn't really  cocaine/meth/weed." If it's a white powder it could sugar, flour, or chalk dust.

Tweets are the same way. Just because you say you're doing something doesn't mean you ARE doing something.

Basically, it'd be impossible to prove, without a doubt that they are, in fact, engaging in illegal drug use.

Question: Why haven't Native Americans moved away from reservations and into cities where they might be better off?
Answer: Basically since the 1850s we have pushed them further and further (white encroachment) until in the 1890s when the Dawes Severalty Act was passed, the government paid them for land and separated tribes and what not.

Well years pass, and they gradually get less land, and finally permanent reservations are established, but by this time; native Americans haven't kept up with modern jobs. Most are vulnerable to poverty and many don't graduate high school so drug addicted teens typically won't make it past 30, and will stay on sight becuase there is literally no where to go.

Question: Why all the planets are turning in the same direction
Answer: They dont (referring to planet rotation). Venus, Uranus (and Pluto) rotate clockwise, the rest rotate counter-clockwise.

When the solar system was first forming, it was nothing but a giant cloud of dust, and because of gravity and the Sun, it had a counter-clockwise spin to it, and as the planets began to form, they kept this rotation, which is why they all revolve around the sun in the same direction.

Venus and Uranus are theorized to have clockwise rotations because they were probably impacted by large planetoids early in their development, which shifted their rotational axis, and in the case of Uranus, completely shifted the axis to horizontal.

Question: Why are some pages "intentionally left blank" in some books?
Answer: Look at a book from the top of the spine sometime - you will see that the paper is glued in bundles - 8 sheet/16 pages per bundle. 

It is very cheap to make books with these bundles, so almost all books are printed this way. This means that the final page count needs to be a multiple of 16. 

Some of this can be taken up with "other books by this author" and other content, but sometimes, the pages are just left blank.

Question: Why is touching a computer screen such a big deal?
Answer: oil on fingers and all your finger shit gets on my pretty screen and I have to wipe it off.

My pretty screen takes a lot of maintanence and careful wiping to keep it smudge free. Then you come in with your cheeto fingers and now there are orange smudges where my spreadsheet folder is. 

nerdhulk is angry but to beta to do anything about it, so nerdhulk complains on reddit.

TL;DR people who care about their equipment notice things like smudges and oil stains on a monitor, especially if you spend all damn day looking at it. therefore, touching a computer screen that isn't yours is kind of a shit thing to do.

As far as ones that are yours, well if you want a crappy smudgy computer screen, go for it. But there is no advantage to be gained from touching the screen in order to show where to click/go. Also if you poke it too hard you might break the screen.

Question: Why do we expect cats to come home after being let out but not dogs?
Answer: * cats don't have the same sense of territory that makes dogs roam and mark
* cats don't pose a serious danger to people, so letting them out doesn't threaten anyone
* cats can climb, jump over, or crawl through obstacles dogs can't

Question: The difference between HIV and AIDS
Answer: HIV is a virus, AIDS is a condition. HIV the virus destroy a certain kind of immune cells that helps make antibodies, molecules that identify and tag diseases so other cells can destroy them. So when cells die you can't make antibodies. When enough of these cells die (I think it's 90%), you are said to have AIDS. TLDR; HIV is a virus, AIDS is a condition caused by it

Question: Why aren't human races classified as species like animals are?
Answer: There is greater genetic difference between two individuals than there are between the "races", the concept of race is fundamentally superficial genetically speaking, in fact humans are one of the most homogeneous species known to exist

For two animals to be considered different species, they must not be able to produce successful offspring - this is clearly not the case with different races of human

Question: Why is Contemporary art held in museums but all other art is held and shown in galleries?
Answer: I think your straw poll may have misled you...the artists you describe generally have their art in museums, not galleries. For example, Da Vinci...art in museums (think of the Mona Lisa in the Louvre). 

Contemporary art can be in both galleries and museums. I believe it has to do with the intent of the art. Museums are for viewing. Art Galleries are for purchasing.

Question: What would happen if everyone maxed out all of their credit cards at once?
Answer: I like this question, generally banks or lending institutions extend lines of credit, but use statistical algorithms to decide how much money to keep available, so it's possible Visa might run out of money, since this is an essentially impossible occurrence, for which they are not prepared.

Question: How do leggings keep somebody warm in the fall and winter months?
Answer: Short answer: Fashion is about making sacrifices, and its no wonder women always complain about being cold.

Long answer: Its a factor of a number of things. Women shave their legs, and hair is specifically designed to keep people warm. Leggings do a number of things. first, they act as insulation, by helping to trap heat in the body. They also have their own heat capacity, so that your body isn't affected by every little draft and breeze (the energy is pulled from the leggings, which can be replenished from other parts of leggings and from your body at a slower rate). 

But for all of the above, it only works to a point. Try googling techniques on improving insolation if you're curious; there's some really cool stuff out there to learn. Girls are willing to freeze their butts off to look good when its cold enough. Also, if they're inside most of the time, its not as bad. Its only a problem if they're outside for longer periods of time, and not just walking from the car to the store. It all comes down to insulation and thermal storage.

Question: Why is it that anytime I'm interested/thinking about a certain thing, I find references to them in real life?
Answer: Basically you weren't looking for it before, but now that its in your subconscious, you notice and process it, giving the illusion of frequency. This is called the [Baader-Meinhof Phenomenon](_URL_0_).

Question: How do spicy foods like wasabi kill bacteria?
Answer: The active ingredient is [Allyl isothiocyanate](_URL_0_) which is mainly to deter animals - caterpillars etc. and larger animals like grazers - from eating the plant.

It harms bacteria too by damaging their cell membranes, which are the outer containers holding all the machinery inside their cells. When this membrane is damaged, they start leaking, stop working properly and die. The exact way it damages them isn't fully understood yet.

Question: What is my belly button currently attached to, and does it serve a purpose anymore?
Answer: Your belly button is where your umbilical arteries/vein connected to the placenta via the umbilical cord. After birth they shrivel up and become ligaments (fibrous tisue), the arteries becoming the [medial umbilical ligament](_URL_0_) and vein becoming the [round ligament of the liver](_URL_1_). They don't do anything post-birth.

Question: In the US, what's the difference between manslaughter and murder? Also, why are there three "degrees" of murder?
Answer: if i understand correctly:

1st degree - you plan to kill someone and you kill them (ex: you find out your wife is cheating on you, so you go the store, buy a gun, hide in the bushes somewhere and kill your wife)

2nd degree - you kill someone in the "heat of the moment" (ex: walk in on you wife cheating, so you pull out your gun and shoot her)

3rd degree - manslaughter, you meant to hurt someone but not kill them, but they die anyway (ex: you confront your wife about cheating, slap her, she falls down, hits her head and croaks)

Question: What the difference between a Democratic Socialist and a "traditional" Socialist is?
Answer: **Socialism**  
Socialism is a big word that actually covers a VERY LARGE variety of political ideologies. Socialism can be ran by the state or anarchic, it can be national or a small community, it can be communist or have markets in it.  
The IMPORTANT part, which frankly no "socialist" country has actually achieved, is that the Means of Production are owned not by any one individual, by by the communities themselves. Some forms of socialism are merely means to implement communism too, which is a very specific type of socialism.  
So yeah, socialism is a huge over-arching term that covers a lot.
  
  
**Democratic Socialism**  
So one of the first fracturing points in the socialist ideologies is HOW a society is going to implement socialism. You have some camps (Leninists) who advocate violently wrenching control of the state from the capitalist overlords and using it to implement socialism, and eventually communism.  
  
It is now that I would like to point out most socialists, and ALL communists, think this is stupid as hell. You will scarcely see any of us advocating for a recreation of the USSR.
  
Now, Democratic Socialism is simply socialism that intends to implement itself by playing the governments rules. In the U.S.A. this would mean electing DemSoc politicians who will attempt to lay the groundwork for a socialist society. Democratic Socialism also likes to "Band-Aid" the current capitalist system by helping the disenfranchised and marginalized through welfare.
  
However, this is still a socialism that is ran by the state, and you have whole armies of socialists who think this is absolutely silly and will just lead to more Authoritative State Socialist bullshit.
  
And, for the record,  
**SOCIALISM =/= GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS**  
That so completely misses the point that it hurts...

Question: How do unripe bananas develop at home?
Answer: They're fully grown before they start to ripen. The ripening process is caused by the plant growth regulator (like a plant hormone or plant neurotransmitter) 'ethylene', and begins to turn starch in the banana into sugar.

Bananas are not the only fruit to work this way (storage then ripening). It's a common survival strategy because it lets you make sure your seeds and fruit are fully mature before anything tries to eat it (as opposed to ripening while growing).

Question: why dont ants drown when it rains?
Answer: My understanding:

First, in a rainstorm, lots of ants drown.  Even being well prepared for an event like a flood doesn't mean everyone survives, and not every plan is executed perfectly.  The best laid plans of ants and men, etc . . . 

Second, different species take different approaches.  Some fire ants just link legs/arms, turn into living rafts, and float to somewhere new, where they can build a new nest. Same thing with some Amazonian ants when they need to cross rivers. Some construct the opening of their nests to resist penetration by water.  

From what I've seen briefly researching, the most common strategy is just building in the right place. Ants build their nests in soil that dries quickly and water doesn't necessarily penetrate that far, so they can just go deeper and wait out the wetness. 

Think of this last bit like adding water to flour when you're making bread.  Even if the water "floods" the top layer of flour, unless you mix it, the bottom layer will stay quite dry.  If the ants nest extends below that wet/dry barrier, than it will stay dry. 

So, to sum up, Some ants just go with the flow.  Some reinforce against water, and many build in places where flooding is likely to do only manageable damage. And, when these strategies don't work, they die.

Question: When a player gets injured in the NBA, what happens to his salary? Does he still get paid out the full amount?
Answer: >  I don't really think it's fair to pay...

Since when did your concept of fairness enter into the equation?

Question: How come anti-trust/monopoly laws are no longer pursued in the United States?
Answer: They are actually enforced more than they *ever* have been.  Its just a much more complex and "known" situation now, that its very very uninteresting to report on for the media, so unless you're very inovolved in how this stuff works in specific industries of business, you'll probably never hear about all of the stuff going on.

Pretty much everyone in business, economics, and the govt agencies simply know how all of this stuff can work, and will work, and there isn't too many unknowns out there any more, which makes it so that all of these mergers and stuff, you simply don't do it unless its legitimate, because thats bad business to have stuff denied.  

The US Federal Trade Commission (FTC) who is the main US agency who deals with this type of stuff, is also considered to be crazy good at their job, and the world's gold standard-- basically, they know their shit, everyone knows they know their shit,  so they make things very reasonable, enforceable, and known.  In other words, no one is trying to do weird stuff, because their know the FTC isn't having any of that.

Question: If it's illegal to not have auto-insurance, why doesn't the government control and regulate auto-insurance as a Tax, rather than letting private companies sell you a mandatory service?
Answer: The government *does* regulate and control auto insurance.

Question: Why does adding vanilla to boiling sugar (like when making fudge) cause it to bubble/boil rapidly?
Answer: Sugar-water has a higher boiling point than pure water, and the more sugar is dissolved, the higher that point is. So when you've got boiling syrup, it might be 230 or 240 degrees (F). When you pour vanilla extract onto something that hot, it's *going* to boil, since it's got an even lower boiling point than water, since it contains a lot of alcohol.

Question: Why is dip commonly used in sports?
Answer: nicotine is an upper similar to amphetamines that improve performance, and since tobacco is legal, a lot of people use it. dip just happens to be a more socially acceptable way of getting tobacco

Question: How does traction control on a car work?
Answer: You can think of traction control as basically ABS in reverse.  When you accelerate, the car senses whether the tires are slipping on the pavement.  If they are, it will automatically adjust the throttle to help them keep traction.

Question: Why do fan power knobs go 0-3-2-1
Answer: Things like well pumps have electric motors like fans do. They require a capacitor to get the motor going and then the normal current can sustain it. Like how you can't start in 5th gear but you can drive in fifth gear after you get going. Fans have this configuration to extend the life of the fan. They can normally start on one when they are new, but over time the lube wears down and dust gets in there and friction grows and this friction needs to be overcome to get the fan going. When it gets bad 1 won't work if you switch it directly to it. You need to start it on 3 and then it can keep going on 1. Putting 3 first allows for this to be done without most people noticing and allows the fan a longer lifespan before someone decides it's broken.

Question: Why do construction workers use big tall tower things to pour concrete? Pic Inside
Answer: That's called a [concrete pump](_URL_0_).  It's used when you need to inject pressurized concrete someplace rather than just pouring it.  If you're filling an underground hole with concrete to be the base of a pillar, for example, then if you just pour it into the hole it might not fill every nook and cranny.  Pumping it in under high pressure ensures that the whole space gets filled.

Question: Anti-intellectualism in the US
Answer: You are just informed enough to realize you don't know things.  You mistakenly believe that being less informed means you think you know less.  This terms out to not be accurate.  People who aren't informed about things actually tend to think they know quite a bit about something.

Basically, ignorant people think they aren't ignorant, therefore when they see people talking about college education (or any real education) they don't see the value, because they don't believe they are missing anything.  Since they aren't missing anything, this talk about "experts" is just showing off, they are angry about what they see as people just trying to look smart.

Question: Why does it seem like video games from the newest generation seem to have far more bugs and glitches than previous generation games?
Answer: A few factors ...

* New games are way more complex. This means more code, and as the number of bugs per LoC is pretty static you get more bugs.
* Today it is pretty trivial to push patches to the users as they have fast internet.
* Deadlines have become a bigger factor esp. when it comes to franchise titles.

Question: Why do India and China have such massive populations in comparison to the rest of the world?
Answer: I'm almost certain this has been answered before, but it's largely due to geography.  India and China both have exceptionally fertile river valleys capable of supporting large populations with pre-industrial technology.  Even before the world population started exploding during the past two centuries, they were the two largest and richest civilizations on Earth - for example, in the early days of India being a part of the British Empire, it's 'GDP' was over half the productivity of the entire British Empire (including the British Isles themselves).

Question: How do people build all those machines that carve different custom details? Do they invent them every time?
Answer: A machine like the one that makes the spring in your example is a collection of different technologies combined into a new system (pneumatic arms, motorized discs, etc. "Carving" would be more along the lines of a CNC mill or lathe, a laser cutter, or water jet machine that has programmable paths.

Question: "this video is not available on mobile devices/in your country" on YouTube
Answer: One big factor: advertising. Say Burger King has a deal with the owner of the video that they will run an add before it every time it is played. However advertising laws vary from country to country and are very complex. For example, my country does not allow fast food advertising aimed at children. So it's simpler for the provider just to block the video outside of their country and avoid possible legal issues.

Question: What the whole "Cake is a lie" business was all about.
Answer: During Portal, the psychotic AI (GLaDOS) promises you cake after the test. However, as you go through the tests and discover the depth of corruption in the facility and GLaDOS herself, you see messages from a man named "Rattman". He leaves messages saying "The cake is a lie." This just sort of caught on with fans of Portal. The reason it's "a scourge" is because it was beaten into the ground. It's much like the "arrow in the knee" thing from a while back. 
By the way, I *highly* recommend playing Portal.

Question: If humans were to ever come in contact with colours beyond our colour receptive cones, what will we see ?
Answer: We come into contact with "colors" beyond our color receptive cones everyday. Your eyes are only able to pick up on certain wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation, this is what we see as light. If the wavelengths are shorter (like x-rays) or longer (like radio waves) then you simply won't be able to see them.

Question: Can a business refuse to sell stock to a person or company?
Answer: If a company is publicly traded, like on one of the stock exchanges, they can't control who buys stock in them.  

A closely held company, like a family business, generally can.

In between, there is lots of room for lawyers to argue.

Question: What's going on with the DHS funding and why can't they come to an agreement?
Answer: Because the DHS department is the department that funds immigration-related activities.  

Not too long ago, President Obama issued an executive order of moderately debatable constitutionality that would use DHS to quasi-legalize a large number of heretofore "illegal" immigrants, which republicans are opposed to.

Depending on your political bent, Obama's action was either a totally overdue and legitimate extension of Presidential authority to fill a much needed gap and the technical legal argument is much ado about nothing,  or it was an abhorrent sacrelige against the Constitution and all other things righteous and holy.

Congress cannot directly stop Obama's executive order for 2 reasons:  (1) Because democrats hold more than 40 seats in the seante, Republicans cannot overcome a filibuster,   and (2) Because democrats hold more than 33 seats in the senate, republicans cannot overcome an inevitable Presidential veto, even if the Democrats don't filibuster.

However, republicans' ace in the hole in all this is that they have the "power of the purse", meaning they decide what gets funded and what doesn't.  It's in the constitution specifically;  the House of Representatives must initiate all spending bills.  So their denying funding to the DHS is a backdoor way to fight the executive order where Republicans have more leverage.  No money for DHS = Obama can't implement his executive order allowing immigration.

Alas, this means that the whole rest of the DHS and its workers are caught in the crossfire while Obama and Republicans wrangle it out.

Question: Why babies are capable of learning a language so easily
Answer: During early development, the brain is much more plastic, meaning making new connections, erasing old ones, and rearranging existing ones is much easier. Also, because babies don't have any language when they are born, it is believed it is much easier for them to identify and remember the vowel sounds used in a language. An adult can't even begin to make sense of a language they don't understand, because they can't hear the difference between the core sounds used in that language.

Question: Why are we so good at telling apart different people, but so bad at telling apart different animals of the same species? Do humans just have more variance in appearance?
Answer: We're biologically pre-disposed to be able to tell human faces apart (especially the ethnicities we grew up around). I'm not sure what studies have proved this to be the same in other animals, but they obviously can. Dogs can tell each other apart from their scent (and I imagine other species as well, given a strong scent).

I believe it's because due to natural selection, those who could tell different people apart (friend or foe) would have a survival advantage, and at this point it's just so ingrained in us.

Question: How is the routing number on a check used?
Answer: A check is an instruction by you to your bank: when the person named on the check requests it, pay them the amount indicated on the check, from the bank account of which the number is on the check.

This means that at the end of the day, it's always your bank cashing the check. But it's convenient if the person you want to pay can deposit the check at their own bank--and even better if this payment can be processed electronically. This means that the bank accepting the check needs an obvious, consistent way to identify the bank that will pay out.

The routing number is the solution. Each bank in the U.S. that participates in the Automated Clearinghouse is assigned a routing number. The bank that accepts the check can send the information to the ACH, which will identify the the bank on which the check is drawn, and ask it to make the payment. When the bank that originally accepted the check receives the payment, it's credited to the payee's account at that bank.

Question: Why cant the internet version of youtube "minimize" the current video into the corner while I browse for another one, like it does on the app?
Answer: People are suggesting tons of alternatives to your problem, but not actually answering the question. Here's why:

Youtube has a bunch of different product and engineering teams. Some work on the mobile app, and some work on the desktop/mobile web product. YouTube, most likely, gets different usage on both of these platforms, so the amount of engineers assigned to each of these platforms (in order to make updates on each of these) vary based on said usage.

Additionally, there are also "endless" amounts of fixes and feature improvements YouTube can make at any given time. As a result, these bug fixes and feature improvements need to be "prioritized" (i.e., ordered by priority) since YouTube doesn't have "endless" engineers to work on them. The feature of a "minimized" player on the web/mobile web platform of YouTube probably hasn't been prioritized for various reasons:

1) It's probably not that big of a use case, especially given all the alternatives people have mentioned in this thread

2) there are other important features/bugs the team needs to work on before implementing something like this.

Source: I work in tech. Hopefully that helps!

Question: The South Australian Statewide power outage and upstream transmission supply of power
Answer: It means all in-state power plants are offline and the lines that bring power in from out of state are down aswell, they may physically be damaged or they cant handle that amount of power so they shut them off so they dont burn up

Question: What is it in most animals that makes them "shut down" with a blindfold on?
Answer: You try walking around with a blindfold on and see how long it takes for you to hurt yourself. 

Now amplify the fear you should feel by a million because animals don't have hospitals and minor injuries can easily be fatal. Also, there are things that will eat them. There aren't things that would eat humans really.

They do it because it is much safer to stop moving when eyesight is your main sensory ability.

Question: What are the causes of the Great Depression?
Answer: The Great Depression was caused by many factors but one of the largest was a gross misuse of credit.

Basically in the 1920s people began buying things on credit (I buy this cheeseburger for you today but don't pay you until next week)

This was all well and good but there where no real safety measures in place and people spent much MUCH more then they actually had.

The result was an incredibly boosted economy (known as the roaring 20s) but it just couldn't last.

So on Black Tuesday the house of cards collapsed, the Stock Market crashed spectacularly, overnight people lost millions. This caused a panic as people rushed to the bank to withdraw their cash, but since the banks use the money given to them to invest they did not have it on hand and much of it died in the stock market crash as well. The result was that the bank could not provide people with all of their money.

A double whammy also occurred in the Midwest where the Dust Bowl hit, a disaster caused from overfarming and drought, the dust bowl would go on to decimate US crops and utterly destroy the lives of many farmers.

Question: Why don't the radio waves used to transmit information all superpose?
Answer: They do superpose in the most general sense, but a radio receiver has a circuit that filters out everything but the frequency it wants.

Question: Short of shutting down entire city blocks, how do they film street/public setting movie scenes without getting the crowds of gawking people in the shot?
Answer: I know the question states "short of shutting down entire city blocks"  but I think the best answer is they shut down entire city blocks.

Question: Why does my cat sometimes run around the house like a maniac?
Answer: Cats are made for a world that punishes unecessary use of energy. They sleep to save up energy for their hunt, usually hunting is done at night. In a domestic enviroment the cat doesnt "need" to hunt but its energysaving ways are hardwired.


All that energy needs to go somewhere and they will handle it by running around like crazy furballs on speed. In some cases it will help to play more with your cat, letting it use its huntingreserves.

Question: What ending the Fed would do.
Answer: It depends entirely on what you replaced it with.

There are, broadly speaking, two kinds of people in the world. There are those who say we should abolish the central bank system … and there are those who know what the central bank system is and does. There is no overlap between these two groups, so far as I've seen.

A modern economy consists — in very simplified terms — of five interacting parts. They are:

* The treasury
* The central bank
* The lending banks
* The depositors
* The consumers of capital

Note that there's some blurriness between the fourth and fifth parts: The same individual can be both a depositor and a consumer of capital. But we're ignoring that to keep things simple.

The treasury is an institution of consensus; it exists because the people agree that it exists. The treasury has only two powers: To sell bonds, and to spend money. That's all the treasury can do.

The central bank is another institution of consensus, and it also has two powers: It can buy and sell bonds. To carry out these two powers, we give the central bank two special accounts, which we sometimes call the source account and the sink account. Credits applied to the source account never clear; debits applied to the source account always clear. That's rule one. What this means is that you can never put money *into* the source account, but you can always take money out. The source account is, in other words, an endless *source* of money, hence the nickname. Rule two is the opposite: Debits applied to the sink account never clear, but credits always do. The sink account, then, is the money *sink*, the place where money disappears.

The lending bank is a chartered business institution. It's started by a private individual using initial lending capital. It takes on deposits from the depositors, and it lends capital to the consumers of capital. The central bank acts as the lending bank's *bank.* In other words, just as a depositor wants to keep money in his lending bank and then use that account for transactions, the lending bank keeps its reserve in an account at the central bank. The central bank, then, acts as a mediator of transactions between lending banks, because all the lending banks are customers of the central bank, in a sort of hub-and-spoke arrangement. (That's why the central bank is called the *central* bank. It's the bank at the center of the hub-and-spoke arrangement of banks.)

Depositors are people who put money into a lending bank. The lending bank then lends out those deposits (minus a required reserve) as capital.

Consumers of capital are people who take loans out from banks. Here we're talking specifically about *secured* loans; that is, loans which are backed by a lien on some kind of real property. You know how if you take out a car loan and fail to make your payments, the bank gets your car? Same thing, except it doesn't have to be a car.

So those are the pieces. How they work is like this: The treasury issues a series of bonds, which are bought by the central bank, debiting the source account — creating money, in other words. The money goes to the treasury, which spends it, giving it to private citizens. Those private citizens go to the lending banks and deposit their money, thus becoming depositors; the lending banks then make that money available as capital. Other private citizens come to the lending banks and borrow that money, backed by some kind of assets, thus become consumers of capital. The consumers of capital then spend the money they borrowed, which means it ends up in the hands of other private citizens, who turn around and deposit it into the lending banks again.

Each time a lending bank takes on a deposit and lends it out as capital, wealth is created. In general, this is a good thing, but as with anything else it can happen too slowly or it can happen too quickly. The central bank, then, *moderates* the movement of capital, by encouraging more lending when capital is moving too slowly, or discouraging lending when capital is moving too quickly. The central bank can also increase or decrease the size of the money supply directly, which controls the value of money. Remember those bonds the central bank bought from the treasury? The central bank can sell those bonds to lending banks in exchange for money which is then credited to the sink account, thus *destroying* money, making it more scarce, and consequently more valuable. The central bank can also buy bonds back from the lending banks in exchange for money, thus making money *less* scarce and less valuable.

Finally, remember how we said loans made by the lending banks are backed by something? That something that backs a loan is generically called an *asset*. An asset is something that's worth money but which is not, itself, money. It can't be spent, in other words, without converting it to money. One way to convert an asset into money is to sell it, but a better way is to borrow against it. Banks manage their *liquidity* — that is, how much of their assets are spendable as money — by borrowing against their assets through the central bank. Not *from* the central bank; the actual creditor of the loan is another lending bank. But the loans are mediated *by* the central bank, because again, the central bank is *at the center* of the system. A bank that's short on liquidity right now — because a big depositor came in and asked for a withdrawal in the millions of dollars, say — can take out an overnight loan against its assets through the central bank, then repay that loan the next day from liquidity made up by new deposits. So a bank that's connected to the central bank, therefore, can never have a liquidity crisis as long as that bank is solvent. (You're solvent as long as your assets are worth more than your liabilities.)

Okay, so the central bank then performs three *basic* core functions:

* It controls the money supply by buying and selling bonds.

* It controls the flow of capital by encouraging and discouraging lending.

* It ensures liquidity by facilitating overnight loans between lending banks.

So if you want to abolish an existing central bank, you need to replace it with something that performs those functions. If you just replace it with another institution that does the same functions … well, then you haven't actually done anything, have you? You've just torn down one perfectly good barn and built an identical barn on the same spot. Wasted effort, in other words.

Other than that, though, the effects of making a change to an economic system would depend entirely on what shape that change takes. You cannot simply propose abolishing a central bank, because the role the central bank plays in a modern economy is not optional. *Something* must perform that role in order for an economy to work. Whatever thing performs that role, that's your central bank, whether you call it by that name or some other. The question of whether tearing down an existing central bank and replacing it with something else that performs the same role is good or bad depends entirely on what that other thing is.

Question: Why do we eat different foods depending on the time of the day? i.e. cereal for breakfast, burgers for lunch/dinner
Answer: It's purely cultural. Check out these [articles](_URL_2_) on [breakfast around the world](_URL_0_) --- people in different places eat lots of different stuff for breakfast. There are some trends --- pretty much everybody wants something easy to prepare (eggs are popular everywhere), people in cold weather places tend to eat hot, filling things (oatmeal, porridge, congee) people in hot weather places tend to eat lighter (coffee and toast, fruit, yogurt, cheese). But nothing hard and fast --- France is temperate weather wise, but people there eat very light breakfasts. 

Cereal is so popular in the U.S. because a couple of health nut brothers (the [Kelloggs](_URL_1_)) started a fad for it in the 19th century, convincing people that it was better for you. People used to eat steak and ham and eggs for breakfast and stuff before that.

Question: What is a lame-duck Congress (United States)
Answer: In politics, "Lame Duck" is used to describe to period of time between an Election and when the winners of that election assume office.  A President who lost or did not campaign for a Second Term in November, for example, is called a "Lame Duck President" until the new President takes office in January.

A Lame-Duck Congress, therefore, is Congress between when the General Election takes place (once every two years) and when the New Congress takes office (Every Two Years, every Representive and 1/3 of all Senators are up for Re-Election, so there is a "new" Congress every 2 years; we're on the 113th right Now).

Question: ELIS I know it's a bit late but how exactly did the Lehman Brothers go bankrupt?
Answer: the housing market crashed happened when people agreed to adjustable rate mortgages that they couldn't afford.  before these mortgages defaulted, lehman brothers (among other finance companies) bought these mortgages that were lumped in with other debt and rated higher that they actually were. standards  &  poor's (who does the rating) was basically bribed into doing so (by the people who were short selling the bad mortgages) and then said "we just rate it, we don't force you to buy it".

For more info read the book "the big short" by michael lewis

Question: Why is fire used to make land fertile? Wouldn't the heat from the flames cause a dust bowl effect?
Answer: Fire is GOOD for nature for many reasons; you may have heard that coniferous trees (trees with cones) will only spread their seeds when the heat from a fire melts the resins in the cones and allows them to open up. 

Fire is also beneficial in that, once the trees are burned, the remaining ashes contain lots of nutrients that will aid in the regrowth of the area.

Mountainous areas with lots of trees aren't as prone to the dust bowl effect because the dead trees still prevent the wind from blowing at gale forces. Not to mention that dead trees still have plenty of roots to hold the soil in place.

Question: Why is blood red but do our veins look blue?
Answer: The fat under your skin absorbs low frequency light.  The higher frequency blue wavelengths are what you see while the lower reds are filtered out.

Some people try to spread the old wives tale that blood is blue when it's in your veins, but that is not the case.

Question: Why do people's personalities change when they experience memory loss or brain damage?
Answer: Because your brain has your personality in it. If a bullet goes through your brain and damages it, you'll be missing a significant amount of pathways that were present before.

Question: Why isn't car bodywork made from stainless steel?
Answer: Because its too expensive.

But that didn't stop DMC from building the deLorean.  Thank goodness for poor business decisions.

Question: What would happen if all bacteria was removed from my body?
Answer: The vast majority of cells in your body are bacterial cells (something like 90-99% of all cells are bacteria), so the effects of removing all bacteria would be widespread and effectively leave us unable to survive.

Removing bacteria from the gut would prevent absorption of many vital nutrients. This is actually one of the dangers of taking antibiotics too aggressively: they kill all bacteria, good and bad, and can lead to malnutrition and other complications.

Bacteria also utterly occupy our skin and actually out-compete many dangerous species of bacteria. Without these benign bacteria growing on your skin, you'd be more prone to infection. This is a major reason why doctors don't recommend constantly using antibacterial creams and the like.

[Source](_URL_0_)

Question: When high-level world leaders (like Obama and Putin) talk to each other on the phone, do they speak in the same language or do they need a translator? And if they need a translator, isn't that a serious security concern that someone knows everything they're saying?
Answer: The translator only has to be trusted by the party that hires him. Usually Obama brings a Russian translator, and Putin brings and English translator. The translators work together and check each other to verify what the other is saying is accurate.

A Presidential translator has passed the requisite security clearances and background checks to have access to the sensitive information that a President does. With those clearances and background checks comes an inherent trust and professionalism that the translator will accurately and faithfully represent what's being said.

Also, many foreign officials also speak English. I don't think Putin fluently speaks English, but many others do.

Question: How does radiation do damage to your body?
Answer: Low-energy radiation (visible light, radio waves) isn't dangerous because it has so little energy. Getting pelted by photons from a lamp is like having sand thrown at you, it simply cannot harm you.

If radio waves are comparable to sand then the other end of the spectrum (gamma rays, x-rays) are .50cal rounds. They impart enough energy to physically break down your cells.

If you're subjected to that kind of radiation it's strong enough to damage your DNA which can lead to mutations and cancer. Past certain point the radiation doesn't just damage the cells, it just plain kills them by breaking down the structures they are made of. Extreme exposure leads to what you see in the picture.

Question: The inter-universal teichmuller theory
Answer: You should consider posting this to some other subreddit, like r/askscience or r/askmath . 

Really not a topic you can ELI5.

Question: Want to learn C#; can someone explain the different versions of C#, .NET, and Visual Studio, and how the parts relate to each other?
Answer: Let's start by defining some things. .NET is a framework. It isn't a specific language, but rather a large set of libraries that performs a bunch of useful tasks. These libraries can be used by a variety of programming languages, including C#. The reason for this is because code written in these languages is compiled into an intermediate language that is common between all of the languages, and this intermediate language is executed by the Common Language Runtime (CLR). This is similar to how Java code is compiled into bytecode that is executed by the JVM.

Hopefully that will help you understand the differences a bit better. The reason why you can have different versions of .NET and C# and whatnot is because they can be developed independently. Each one of the .NET languages is required to have a baseline level of support for the basic .NET framework, but can also support additional features that other .NET languages do not support. Thus, you should be able to see how they can be on different version numbers. The latest C# version is 6.0, the latest .NET version is 4.5 (I believe).

In truth, the actual version numbers aren't insanely important if you are just starting out. When you download Visual Studio, every version of .NET and every compiler for every version of C# should be downloaded. When you create a project, it should default to the latest, which is probably your best bet to use. You want Express 2013 for Windows Desktop.

Question: how a "stimulus package" helps out the economy.
Answer: What you have described is known as "quantitative easing". A stimulus is when the government takes out a bunch of loans (financed by selling bonds usually) and uses that money to buy things, often paying for infrastructure improvements (fixing bridges, repaving roads etc.). You may have noticed a lot of road work on the highway recently... This is likely stimulus money at work.


**ELI5 Part:**
Think about it this way: What happens when you buy something from a friend? You give the friend a twenty dollar bill, and you get your item (we'll say you're buying two hotdogs, because I haven't eaten yet). Then, he/she goes out and buys two sodas from another friend, and so on and so forth. Now, imagine that instead of a twenty, you use a fifty. Now, you can buy 2.5x more stuff. To fill that want, your friend makes five hotdogs to sell to you instead of two. But, in order to make five hotdogs, he/she has to hire another person to help him/her make more hotdogs. This is a concept known as circular flow, and it is a central tenet of macroeconomics.


In reality, it is a bit more complicated than this (some people will save part of the $50 instead of spending it all, they will put it in a bank that will give out loans, etc.) but this is supposed to be an ELI5, after all. 


For more on the topic take Macroeconomics 101, or watch these videos on Khanacademy: _URL_2_
_URL_1_
_URL_0_

Question: What are the students protesting against in Taiwan currently which resorted to them "invading" the cabinet compound of their Government?
Answer: i really dont have a good enough handle to be doing this on ELI5, but here goes:

1) the main issue at hand which most directly sparked the sit-in protest was Service Agreement with China that Gigatergar mentioned.
having promised the public last June that it would be reviewed article by article, the KMT ruling party instead rushed the Agreement using multiple covert meeting daily, and actually WHISPERED into a body mic that the Agreement had been passed.
the students are mainly demanding that the Service Agreement be rejected and re-reviewed by a different committee, as well as an apology from President Ma.

the other 2 more covert issues are 
2) the fact that the Service Agreement is feared to mean the demise of small businesses in Taiwan, as well as being the beginning of the end of a autonomous Taiwan, knowing that China is doing this mainly for the purpose of one day unifying Taiwan. most Taiwanese neither believe in unification with China, nor complete Indepedence, but support keeping the Status Quo, and any move leaning towards one or the other would make them nervous.

and 3) that President Ma has done a terrible job, with the economy not improving even after a similar controversial agreement with China (the ECFA) signed last year, resulting in a popularity poll in the single digits. discontent with the government is at an all-time high.


Edit: missing a few words. Probably lots of spelling mistakes, typing from my mobile.

Question: Why does Japan seem to have such a low proportion of immigrants when compared to other developed countries?
Answer: Japan is a very (ethnically) homogeneous society and was essentially closed to foreigners for more than 250 years. Foreigners are not made to feel particularly welcome there. Anyone "different" stands out like a sore thumb.

Question: Does laying in bed resting before you sleep actually do anything to rejuvinate your body for the upcoming day?
Answer: Sleep is mostly important to renew the brain neurotransmitters and do some housekeeping around the brain. When you think about it, sleep is mostly about shutting down your consciousness. We are only starting to understand what really happens in the brain during sleep.

Conclusion: laying in bed is rejuvenating your body without doing much for your brain.

Question: Why does our fingernails have faint lines going up and down?
Answer: well first you should know that its normal. Evenly spaced vertical lines are never a sign of a problem (But horizontal lines, you should see a doctor.)

What happens is that as you get older, parts of the nail matrix (the part of your fingers that the nail grows out of) atrophy. They become weak and dont function quite as well.  This results in the increasingly prominent vertical ridges.

They're very similar in this way to skin wrinkles. Just the natural result of the aging process.

Question: (Serious) Can a person get rid of their freckles?
Answer: Just as a reminder, the [Serious] tag isn't required here on ELI5. All questions here are assumed serious.

/uncalled for mod

Question: Software Installation
Answer: Apps that can be run off a flash drive, or without an installation, are referred to as "portable". What this means is the .exe file (sometimes they might need other files in that directory, too) contain everything needed to run the program.

More complex programs have different needs and need to be installed. Some of the things that might require an installation (I'm using Windows as an example here) are because they need DLL (Dynamic Link Libraries) installed in to Windows, may need a configuration file stored somewhere accessible, may need to have things put in to the registry for configuration or file associations, etc. 

DLLs can be specific to the programming software that the program was written in, and may already be installed on your computer, so an installer will often check for that. They are files with some standard information in them that the executable will use to be able to run itself - because these are standard files from the programming language used to write the executable, they are stored externally to help reduce the size of the program.

There are lots of other things an installer can do. Some times these things could be skipped, which is why you will sometimes see an installer version and a portable version of the same program offered.

Question: Why do(almost) all police cars use the same car/model?
Answer: Only a few cars are designed to be turned into police cars. They have to have more powerful engines, brakes, electrical systems, alternators, plus they have to have adjustments you may not even think of.

For example, my Charger has a really wide center console because standard police equipment like radios are 9" wide. And the cruise control is on the wheel instead of on the steering column, because the police model has a column mounted shifter.

Question: When floating in space, or any zero gravity environment, would a person always feel as if they were standing upright?
Answer: You would feel as though you were falling. "Zero-gravity" actually means you are in free fall, or in a motion that imitates free fall, such as the planes that fly in steep parabolic arcs to simulate zero-g for short periods of time without having to go into orbit.

Imagine you jump down an elevator shaft that just goes on forever. That's what being in zero-g feels like, and that is why people often feel sick/throw up when experiencing it.

Question: How does a child get a recessive gene if both parents have dominant?
Answer: Passing on a recessive gene means that  they are both carriers, giving you the lucky 25% of cases that would have the thumb.

Question: what happens if you leave the microwave door open and it's turned on?
Answer: Microwaves are electromagnetic radiation with fairly large wavelength. If you take away the spinning mechanism and put in something like a block of cheese, you'll pretty reliably be able to see that the heat will most be applied in certain sections. If you measure the distance between those sections, you'll be able to tell the wavelength of the microwaves.

What'll happen if you leave the door open? Microwaves will leak out. What does this do to you? Well it affects the water in your system which definitely can't be good for you, but it isn't a HUGE deal. It'll also really fuck with the wifi at your house so long as the microwaves are leaking out

Question: "Happy" music versus "Dark, depressing" music. Why do we see either as being such? What makes a certain combination of notes fit in either category?
Answer: There is a learned history involved.  Music and language are very closely related.  Think of someone expressing sorrow or sympathy in a western language.  Often there is a sigh, which falls down slightly with the sound going softer.  Now listen to the lachrymosa from the Requiem by Mozart and you can hear this sigh in the violins.  Mozart plays with the sigh by inverting the shape etc...but that affect is present through that movement.  And if you look at music that evokes sadness you will find this sigh figure.  Check out Barbers adagio, it occurs over and over again.  Or listen to the Bach violin sonata in G Minor, the adagio. 

Now for keys and their relationship to sadness.  Before pianos and in the early renaissance, the modes were popular tools for composing.  Today, modes that we would define as sad, were used as modes for things that were happy or calming.  But as music started to have a stronger relationship with vertical function over horizontal counterpoint, you start to see the modes shift roles.  It was a long evolution, and part of it is based on these emotive gestures becoming a part of the western music dialect.  

The key that fit really well with that sigh figure happens to be minor.  And there are a great deal more gestures.  Like something joyous often has a jump up of a fourth and sixth.  Take for example happy birthday or the wedding march by Wagner.  Now relate that what your voice naturally does when you get excited by seeing a friend you like "oh hey!" Or when you win a game and get excited and yell "hell yes!"    

This is a very brief survey answer to your question and if you like I could try and find some examples for you.

Question: Great Circles
Answer: **A 2D TRIANGLE**

Start with flat 2D geometry: Put 2 points, A and B, on a piece of paper, and draw a straight line between them, and measure length of line from A to B.

Next, add a 3rd point, C, anywhere on the paper, and connect that to points A and B to make a triangle. Can you make the line from A to C to B as short as the line from A to B?

The only way to do that is to put C on the line between A and B. At that point, though, it ceases to be a triangle, and is really just the line from A to B with another mark on it.

**DEFINING "GREAT CIRCLE"**

Now, let's try the same experiment on a 3D sphere. When working in 2D, we only needed 2 starting points. With 3D, we need 3 starting points.

If point A is Sydney, point B is Johannesburg (A and B could be any other two different points on the sphere, as well), and point C is the center of the sphere (Hey! C for center! That works out well!), you can imagine 1 flat surface going through each of those points, dividing the sphere into 2 parts.

Further, because this flat surface goes through the center of the sphere, you also know that the flat surface is dividing the Earth exactly in half.

In other words, if you took the sphere apart where its cut by that flat surface, the edge would not only be circular, but it would be the largest possible circle you could make with that sphere. It's the greatest possible circle size, or "great circle" for short.

The shortest distance between any two points on that circle, is along that great circle itself.

**SHORTEST POSSIBLE DISTANCE PROOF**

Want proof? OK, we're going to do that triangle experiment again, but this time on the surface of the sphere!

Points A (Sydney) and B (Johannesburg) are already on the great circle, of course, because that's how we started.

Choose a point D that's on the surface of the sphere, but not on the great circle. Points A, B, and D now form a spherical triangle (a triangle on the surface of a sphere).

Just like in the flat triangle version, the only way to get the line from A to D to B to be as short as the line from A to B is to move D so that it's on the line from A to B.

There's your proof that the shortest distance along the surface of a sphere between any two points on that surface is along the great circle!

**BONUS TRIVIA**

Planes flying from San Francisco to Tokyo fly a great circle path, but planes flying from Tokyo to San Francisco do not. Planes flying from Tokyo to San Francisco can save fuel by taking advantage of the jet stream over the Pacific.

Question: What's the opioid crisis?
Answer: I work in healthcare. The opioid crisis is this situation in America where it is seen that providers are prescribing opioids (think painkillers) much more liberally than how they should. There are several studies that show how addictive these opioids can be and that innocent people can become addicted with a simple 5-7 day dose following surgery. The problem that laypeople fail to realize is that medicine has become a patient satisfaction industry.

 If I feel pressured by a patient to write them opioids, I know I’m about to run into trouble. They are more likely to be dissatisfied when I refuse to give them opioids that I feel are not indicated, with the possibility of taking me to court. Now this is where the fun begins. They may win a suit against me for “not being compassionate to help them alleviate their pain while I have the power to do so”. On the flip side, if I prescribe opioids (even when I feel it is appropriate), I can be sued for them becoming addicted. Honestly there is no way to win even with perfect medical judgement.

Most people aren’t doctors though and they dont think or even care how it affects us, but really the doctors need more legal protection than what we currently have. We can lose our livelihood any day despite having perfect judgement with prescriptions.

Question: Sometimes my rings feel more loose on my fingers then other times, why?
Answer: Finger tissue swelling/shrinkage. Rings will allwsys be looser in cold conditions.  Somebody else wanna take the "it must be cold in here" dick joke??

Question: How does a vinyl record work?
Answer: Vinyl should be the easiest to understand - the waveforms are etched directly into the vinyl.

Open up a music file in a viewer like Audacity - you see that waveform? That's what is etched into the vinyl. The needle gets moved up and down (and left-to-right as well for stereo records) and the vibrations are carried to some electronics that amplify them.

In fact, if you take a record player with no power whatsoever and spin a record, you'll be able to hear the music directly from the needle (but it'll be very very quiet).

Question: What happens when you "see stars"?
Answer: When you hit the back of your head, you're hitting the part of your brain that perceives vision, this can temporarily disorient you and cause little "stars" to appear in your vision

Question: Why do our faces turn red when we are embarrassed?
Answer: Your body thinks embarassment is a threat. It triggers adrenaline to help you fight the threat. Adrenaline dilates your blood vessels so you get more oxygen and blood to use so you can fight or run. Blood rushing to your face makes you look red.

Question: Can someone explain hockey rules to me like I am a five year old Californian?
Answer: 5 guys per team try to skate on ice and put a small cylinder (puck) into a goal of the other team only using a stick with a flat blade on the end.

Lines:
- There's 2 blue lines. Each are about a 1/3 of the way from a goal. 
- There's a red line in the middle of the rink. 
- There's 2 additional red lines where each goalie is.

Can't go over the blue line towards the enemy's goal without the puck going there first. If you are in that area when the puck goes in, you're offside and you have to have a faceoff (ref throws the puck down and 2 players try to get it).

Can't pass the puck over a the middle red and one of the blue lines to a teammate. This is called a 2-line pass - it's not in all version of hockey.

Can't shoot the puck over 2 red lines without a teammate touching it (the 2 red lines being the middle, and the opposing goalie's red line). This is called icing.

Hitting people is ok, but there's rules to stop players from obviously trying to hurt someone. If, however, you're not paying attention and you get your clock cleaned it can be considered a "clean hit" (ie. legitimate, even though you got hurt).

Goalie has a semi-circle that other players aren't allowed to be in. Messing with the goalie is called interference.

If you break any rules about being mean to other players (pulling them with your stick, hitting them with your stick, fighting and so forth) then you get penalized by sitting for 2-5 minutes in a box while the rest of your team has to play without you. A team can be down up to 2 players at a time. Additional penalties just add time to the total length that people are in the penalty box for.

That should about do it for the major rules.

Question: why do people constantly compare communists and nazis? Aren't they diametrically opposed ideologies and didn't the communists defeat the nazis?
Answer: Both systems result in the deaths of millions.

By shear numbers, communist russia killed way more people than the Nazis did.

Politics is a horseshoe, as you get closer to the extreme edges, they start to look a lot like each other.

Question: Why are cops in the US allowed to break into your house without a warrant when there's a party?
Answer: They aren't. They do not have the lawful authority to break into *any* private structure, business or residential, in the absence of something called *exigent circumstances.*

Basically, an exigent circumstance is any situation in which *not* acting creates an unreasonable risk of harm to something or somebody. If a policeman were walking down the street and heard cries of "Help! Help!" coming from within a private residence, that policeman would (probably; depends on the exact circumstances) have the lawful authority to make entry to that residence, up to and including breaking the door in. That's because under that circumstance, the policeman would reasonably suspect that somebody was *actively coming to harm* in the residence at that time, and that waiting could cause that person to come to still greater harm.

But a noise complaint does not create an exigent circumstance. If somebody calls in a noise complaint on you, the police will come to your house, knock on the door, and *ask* to be invited inside so they can check things out. They will not break your door in, because there's no reason to believe it's an exigent circumstance.

However, there is also the matter of what's called *probable cause.* Probable cause is the legal doctrine that says sometimes peace officers — policemen, sheriffs and so on — have the lawful authority to conduct an arrest or a search right there on the spur of the moment, without getting explicit judicial approval (i.e., a warrant). If a policeman comes to your door in response to a noise complaint, looks past you into your residence and *sees people snorting white powder,* that policeman will have the lawful authority to enter your home with or without permission and determine whether that white powder is a controlled substance.

So the short answer to your question is that police cannot break into your home except under exigent circumstances, and they can't even enter your home without permission without probable cause, and a noise complaint *by itself* creates neither.

Question: The reasoning behind Mormon polygamy.
Answer: For what it's worth, here's [the Church's official explanation](_URL_0_). Consider the source, obviously, but you sometimes see claims of one official reason or another and this is the only real official answer I suspect you'll find.

Question: How do we forget?
Answer: First let's look at how we remember things, then we'll work backwards.

Remember in class when you were asked to make a "brain storm" where you would draw a circle and write something in it? Then as you came up with more ideas you'd draw more circles, and you would connect them with lines? Memories kind of work the same way, but instead of ideas, these circles are filled with details.

So what would a brain storm for "dog" look like? Well your brainstorm would have bubbles for things like "four legs", "fur" , "tail", etc with lines connecting them. But every time you saw another dog, you would thicken these connecting lines a little bit. The thicker these lines, the stronger the memory of what a dog is. The circles in this brainstorm represent groups of neurons, each group working to represent a different detail, and the lines are the connections between these groups of neurons.

Forgetting is kind of this process in reverse, the longer you go without experiencing this memory, the thinner these lines get over time. Eventually these lines disappear entirely, and the memory is "forgotten".

Question: Why is haggling something that just doesn't happen any more?
Answer: Market efficiency in action.

Used to be if I wanted to buy something, I didn't have a lot of choices.  There were no supermarkets or shopping malls, and I was pretty much stuck with wherever I was willing to walk to.  If a seller was charging more than I wanted to pay, I couldn't just go somewhere else.

Luckily, the seller was stuck with me too.  If they wanted to make a sale, they might not be able to count on a bunch of other people walking through the door.  The only real alternative either of us had for getting a better price was to argue about it.

In addition, a lot of sellers were selling goods they made themselves, which gave them some flexibility.  If you are selling something for $10 and paid $8 wholesale, you rarely will sell it for less than that.  But if you paid $1 for materials and put an hour of your time into it, you still might want to sell it for $10, but selling it for $5 isn't losing money.

Question: Why are computer and calculator number pads in the opposite order of phone keypads?
Answer: The original calculator had a 1x9 column of number buttons for each digit, with 1 at the bottom and 9 at the top.  To make an 8 digit calculator you had 8 "5" keys in a row.

When calculator people figured you could use one "5" key if you did numbers in order with a "0" key, they folded the 1x9 up into a 3x3 grid with a "0" (and often a ".") below it.

At that time, phone dials were rotary.  Bell did a huge experiment with both formats, but only a very small fraction of society had ever used a calculator (math was done with pencils at the time).  They decided on the 3x4 grid with "1 2 3" at the top because that was the pad that most people used most quickly/correctly.

Then calculators became digital, and cheap, and it was noticed that these two big systems were different.  Alas, neither could agree to change.

Question: Why are autopsies almost always definitive? How come they can give answers when biopsies and other medical procedures can't?
Answer: Sometimes, trying to cure a living person is like working on a car while it's still running. There are a lot of limits to what can be done without being too invasive. When the car is turned off (or the person is dead) you can delve endlessly into researching the engine, taking things apart and so on without being limited to what you can do without risk.

Question: Why do some people get incredibly grumpy when they are hungry?
Answer: It could be an effect of hypoglycemia (low blood sugar). Take a look at this list of symptoms on the wiki page:

_URL_0_

Question: When was the 'first' Monday?
Answer: As pointed out there is some vagary in your question, but I'm going to go with "some time around the first century AD".  This is when the Romans started to switch from the 8 day week to 7 day a week, and moved from using simple letters to denote days of the week to using celestial bodies.  This is when the second day of the week was named after the moon (Monday = Moon's Day), so this seems to be the first traces of our specific version of Mondays.

Question: What should an adult do if they are being assaulted by a minor?
Answer: Flee or defend themselves.

You can defend yourself against anyone, minor or not.

Question: What makes the F-14 so loved and the F-35 so hated?
Answer: F-14 takes you on a highway to the danger zone F-35 will not.

Question: why do we feel energized after shower?
Answer: Hot showers relaxes muscles and releases oxytocin -which eases stress-. Cold showers, on the other hand, put the brain on an alert state, thus "waking" or "energizing" -as you said- the body. 

I believe you refer to the latter.

EDIT: As mentioned by u/Weaponomics, cold showers also stimulate blood flow.

Question: How does an Etch-a-sketch work?
Answer: The inside of an etch-a-sketch is filled with a very fine powder that clings to the transparent screen at the front, the 2 knobs direct a small stylus to scrape the powder off of the screen, allowing you to draw. By shaking it, you redistribute the powder and fully coat the front of the screen again.

Question: Who is the USA fighting and why?
Answer: >  I'm still confused on who we are fighting.

You're not the only one. I'd bet that a good 1/3rd of the people in the US Congress aren't clear on this question either.

As with many things, there's the theory and then there's the reality.

In theory...

We're only supposed to be actively fighting the people who did 9/11. That's primarily [al Qaeda](_URL_4_), a small terrorist group that was headed up by two major people: Osama bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri. As you probably know, we (the USA) killed Osama bin Laden on May 2nd, 2011. al-Zawahiri remains alive and we think he's in charge of whatever little tattered remains of al Qaeda are left.

Secondarily we are also, in theory, fighting the [Taliban.](_URL_3_) The Taliban are Islamic fundamentalists and the de facto rulers of [the mountainous region along the border between north-west Afghanistan and Pakistan.](_URL_0_) It's actually unclear how much support the Taliban gave to al Qaeda. The two of them got along with each other, but it's hard to be certain how much they cooperated with each other or shared their plans. We basically went after the Taliban because they ruled the area where al Qaeda was. See _URL_5_

In reality...

The situation as of 2012 is that we're basically flying drone aircraft all over the aforementioned mountainous region on the Afghanistan/Pakistan border. And shooting hellfire missiles at pretty much whoever we feel like, regardless if we have any real evidence they're terrorists or not. See _URL_2_ There have been a few particularly stupid fuck-ups... we've attacked weddings three or four times, killing about 40-50 people each time, including plenty of women and children. This policy of indiscriminate drone "warfare" ("slaughter of innocent civillians") started under Dubya, but Obama has continued it and even expanded it some. There are no good people in our government when it comes to this policy. Everyone who endorses it is evil. Also, they lie about it endlessly. They claim they're only killing terrorists, but the evidence is greatly against them.

Lastly: We're not really a big militarily presence in Iraq any more. But for about seven years (starting in about mid 2003, ending in about 2010) we invaded them for... well, for no reason at all actually. Dubya and his lying, scumbag cast of Neoconservative warmongers spewed pretty much continuous lies about how al Qaeda was in Iraq and Saddam Hussein had something to do with 9/11. In reality Saddam and Iraq never had anything to do with 9/11, [and everyone with half a brain knew at the time that it was total bullshit.](_URL_1_) But about 99% of the people in DC in 2003 were cowards and/or evil and so they supported the Iraq war anyway. And yes, I'm including both Dems and Repubs in that - there were several very prominent Democrats who supported invading Iraq.

So basically, the invasion of Iraq was predicated on on the basis of Iraq having something to do with 9/11, but that was never true. It was blatant lies. But most of the people in America are just that fucking stupid, they swallowed the whole thing hook line a sinker. You were only about 5 in 2003, so you may not remember it. But I remember it vividly... it got just a wee bit Nazi in this country in the wake of 9/11. People were looking for anyone, anywhere to kill in revenge for 9/11, and they didn't seem to care who it was. It was a sad and disheartening time to be an American with a brain. (And frankly... people haven't seemed to have gotten much smarter since. We're still pretty goddamn stupid about this stuff, in general.)

Question: Didn't we know there was water on Mars?
Answer: The Martian "ice" caps are actually frozen CO2, not H2O.  The Curiosity rover has found H2O on Mars.

Question: Why couldn't artists 500+ years ago achieve the same level of detail as artists today?
Answer: I heard it had a lot to do with the invention / discovery of the camera obscura.

This helped people understand perspective / proportions / etc better. 

Here's a quick article I found about it - but there are a ton of others, videos, books, etc that talk about it in more depth.

_URL_0_

Question: What makes some humans generally considered more attractive than others?
Answer: It is just a tool of evolution. We are programmed to seek out optimal mates for reproducing, and we can dicern more than just physical attributes from looks. Just over 200 years ago, being obese to morbidly obese was considered very attractive, because it meant their family was wealthy and could afford to eat enough to make them fat, which was an uncommon thing at the time. It isnt even a conscious effort, our subconscious breaks down the subtle meanings and gives us either positive or negative feedback. 

These days, when someone is obese or morbidly obese (this coming from a former obese man and student of Philosophy, so dont get too offended), it no longer means they are incredibly wealthy, so we do not find it attractive. On the contrary, it typically (not always) shows that they lack discipline, have difficulty setting long term goals, and struggle controlling their impulses, all traits that would effect a partner negativley when trying to reproduce and raise offspring. 

The mind is a fascinating thing.

Question: Can a piece of toilet paper absorb the same amount of water after a cycle of wet-dry-wet?
Answer: Probably not. Toilet paper is designed to break up in water.  I would expect the gaps in the fibers, the gaps that hold the water, would collapse as it soaks, leaving less volume for water retention after drying out.

Question: What is the Safe Harbour agreement and how does today's ruling affect users of Facebook, etc?
Answer: Put simply, Safe Harbour in this context relates to an agreement between the EU and the USA that US companies can store EU citizens' data in the USA.  Although not exclusively aimed at internet companies, they are the ones most affected because they're most likely to have users worldwide but data processing exclusively or largely in the USA.

The ruling today from the ECJ overturns the Safe Harbour concept, and says that it is now unlawful for any company to transfer data about individuals out of the EU, without that individual's explicit permission.  This is likely to have a major impact on companies such as Facebook, Google, Amazon, and many others, which rely on having their global data synchronised.

Initially there will be little change for Facebook users (companies will be given a grace period to update their systems to make them compliant with the law). It's likely that in the future, Facebook and many other sites will require EU citizens to confirm that they consent to have their data sent to the USA for processing. If they won't consent to that, then they will have either a very limited functionality or maybe won't be able to use the site at all.

Question: Why is it when I'm working on a programming problem, or something with numbers, when I get up and do something else away from the computer for awhile, it comes to much easier when I get back?
Answer: I'm certainly no voice on the matter, but I'd venture to say in those cases that tunnel vision is the issue. Taking a breather if you're tunneling is usually the best way to stop tunneling and get back on track. Could be completely wrong though.

Question: Marx's Theory of the Class Struggle
Answer: Throughout history there have been two groups of people : the Haves and the Have-nots. Whether it be within feudalism or capitalism, these groups will always be in conflict because one group (capitalists) control the means of production while the other (proletariat) have to sell their labor to survive. This conflict continues and shapes society until the Have-nots create a dictatorship of the proletariat and we have a classless society. 

"Your mother is so classless she could be a Marxist utopía! "

Question: why can I sing reasonably well in my choirboy voice but horribly out of tune in my man voice.
Answer: All I can think of is that singing in falsetto is utilizing another vocal cords than what causes the deep voice. Since they are muscles, maybe you have not trained your normal voice to sing, while the falsetto one has been chilling there, ready to sing. 

Trust me, I took singing lessons for 3 years.

Question: why water completely damages a cell phone when submerged.
Answer: Electronic circuits are designed to only allow electricity to pass through    certain parts at certain times. That's how your phone works.

It's a set of boolean functions (1 or 0/true or false). Electricity passes through chip, and it makes a decision such as "and/or". If it's 'and', it sends the signal one way, and if it's 'or', it sends it another way. After it does that, this step is repeated through other logic gates that have other functions that aren't and/or (not/or or any of the many other variants).

Once you submerge it into water, it doesn't follow this designed 'trail', and the phone short-circuits. Because water is conductive, the electrical signals go wherever they can, and electronics can't handle that.

To make something of a comparison; It's the same reason you get in a line when you're shopping. Imagine if all the customers just threw all their items onto the counter at the same time and talked over each other. The cashier wouldn't know what to do. That's what the submersion is.

Question: Why does coffee taste so differently after smoking?
Answer: Here you can find some interesting points. To sum it up, a tobacco really can change the taste receptors

_URL_0_

Question: How can people argue for mandatory drug testing to receive government benefits? Doesnt this violate the constitution through self incrimination? Doesnt testing for BAC when pulled over also do this?
Answer: You are not legally entitled to most government benefits; you must be eligible. If not using illegal drugs is a condition for eligibility, then you can be required to prove that to obtain the benefits. That's not unconstitutional, because you're not being compelled to do anything--it is your choice to seek the benefit of the program.

Mandatory tests for intoxication without any suspicion are highly questionable, but that's a very different situation. Going about your lawful business and being required to submit to a test is not the same thing as applying for a benefit and having to submit to a test to prove eligibility.

Question: the beef between G-Unit and Murder Inc.
Answer: Basically Ja-Rule (murder inc.) and 50-Cent (G-Unit) took slight jabs at each other, Ja-Rule calling 50 jealous because of the respect Ja has in the hood. 50 and Ja then dissed each other in a couple of songs back to back thus causing each others' groups to beef.  Eminem and 50 were real close friends and Eminem talks about how he almost got involved with the beef in his song "Toy Soldiers". He didn't get involved until Ja-Rule said in a song "Em, you claim your mother's a crack head, and Kim (his wife at the time) is a known slut, so what's Hailie (his daughter) gonna be when she grows up?" And nobody talks shit about Em's daughter so Em got involved and verbally tore Ja a new asshole with his song "Nail in the Coffin" and also "Hailie's Revenge".

Question: why do computer hackers get a longer/harsher sentence than a murderer would?
Answer: Because governments are afraid of hackers.  Murderers only kill people.  Hackers can kill banks, defense systems, nuclear plants, expose politician's dirty secrets etc.

Question: Since China landed on the moon I've heard talk of helium-3 mining. What are the practical applications of helium-3 and why would we need to go to the Moon to get it?
Answer: Helium-3 is used in fusion research, neutron detection, cryogenics, and medical imaging according to wikipedia. 

Helum-3 is one neutron short of being normal Helium-4. Helium-3 fusion is attractive for a few reasons.  First, there are no radioactive byproducts.  Also it can lead to direct electrical production as opposed to using fusion to generate steam to drive a generator turbine.  So it's theoretically more efficient.

Neutron detection is important for detecting radioative materials like plutonium.  He3 gets colder than He4, to within a few tenths of absolute zero.  If you inhale it it shows up in an MRI and can be used to image the air ways and lung passages.

The reason you need to go to the moon to get it is that it's even more rare than regular helium.  Helium is light enough to escape Earth's atmosphere and float off into space.  He-3 is even lighter.

Question: In regards to firearms
Answer: A lot of differences between weapons are in areas that don't feature so much in games. For example the cost, the weight, the distribution of the weight, whether or not the ammo is the same as for other weapons, the weight of the ammo, how easy it is to take apart and clean, how often it requires cleaning, etc.

Even on areas which are shown in game stats (accuracy, damage) there's more or less variation than shown in games. In accuracy there's all sorts of differences between weapons that appear identical (bolt-action rifle users are always harping on about accuracy). Meanwhile, in terms of damage, in the real-world there's a lot less variation than in games, as almost any bullet (maybe not .22 rimfire) is capable of ending someone.

Question: The different .txt file encodings (ANSI vs Unicode vs Unicode big endian vs UTF-8)
Answer: A text file is basically a series of bytes - numbers from 0 to 255 - and we want to interpret that as a series of characters. Let's start with a simple one-byte-per-character plan. Pretty much everyone agrees how to assign 0 to 127 to common characters like A-Z and 0-9, that's called ASCII. Various countries came up with their own ways to use 128-255 for extra characters that their language needed. ANSI generally refers to the "Western Europe" one of these mappings.

Unicode is an attempt to clear up the many incompatible one-byte encodings by giving every character a number that everyone agrees with. Mostly these are two-byte codes, 0 to 65535, though some very obscure characters are given higher numbers. "Unicode" as a text file format usually means using two bytes for each character. That's a simple way of storing these longer codes, and you just need to decide which order the two bytes for a character should stored in - this is called big-endian vs little-endian.

The main drawback is that you're using twice as much space as necessary for simple English text - almost half of the bytes will be zero because most of the numbers you're storing are under 255. UTF-8 is a way to represent the full range of Unicode characters while being backwards-compatible with ASCII. The ASCII characters 0-127 are stored as one byte just as before, and the numbers from 128-255 are used to represent higher characters. Some characters fit in two bytes, but some take three bytes. UTF-8 is more-or-less the default choice for the Internet.

Question: What would happen to a dead body in space?
Answer: It would dry out over time as the liquid boils out of it and, if left in direct sun light long enough, could probably gets some nasty burns.

Question: Why do only women wear makeup?
Answer: For a variety of reasons, through history, due to biological, cultural, economic and other factors, beauty and sexuality became of larger emphasis for women than for men and so products were made to supposedly enhance one's beauty.

Men however do wear makeup. Not as much but many men do.

Question: How exactly does fat exit my body after a workout?
Answer: Fat (triglyceride) is made up of Oxygen, Hydrogen and Carbon.  When 'burned', the fat is combined with Oxygen from the atmosphere to create CO2, which you exhale.  About 85% of the weight you lose is exhaled as CO2.

The remaining ~15% is turned into water, which you expel in your urine.

Question: Why are 7 and 13 considered lucky and unlucky respectively?
Answer: this is a cultural thing and if you travel to various parts of the world you'll find the same does not hold true for them.  for instance, Chinese and Japanese consider 4 to be unlucky and not 13.  The reason for that specifically, is because some of the pronunciations of 4 are similar or the same as their word for death.  

13 may be considered unlucky for many reasons but a common belief is because of the christian religions "last supper" where jesus and his 12 disciples ate... judas, the one that betrayed jesus, was the 13th person to sit at the table.  

7 on the other hand may be a rule of 5s type thing... i.e. people looking for certain patterns will eventually see them in just about everything.  I also suspect christian religion has something to do with it though... I've heard many times how 6 (specifically 666) is supposed to be the number of the devil and so 7 which is above six, would be the number of god.

Question: Is it even possible to change a U.S Supreme Court ruling?
Answer: Is it possible to *change* the ruling? No. The ruling is a single event, in the past - it can't be changed.

But the decision can be overriden in a number of ways.

1) Most common - lawmakers in Congress look at the Supreme Court ruling and figure out a way to do what they want to do without violating the Constitution as interpreted by the Supreme Court

2) The Supreme Court decides it was wrong in the past and issues a new opinion overturning the previous decision

3) Least common - A Constitutional amendment can be passed to make it clear that issue X does or does not violate the Constitution

Question: Why do individuals vomit after a concussion?
Answer: Did you know that there is a part of the brain that controls vomitting?  See: _URL_0_ 

When the brain encounters a physical shock, it is possible that this part of the brain becomes triggered.  Once that happens, nausea may occur, which sometimes leads to vomitting.  Because of the triggering, the brain might be trying to eject (a non-existant) toxin from the stomach.

Question: What causes an apple to have more than 1 stalk?
Answer: Photoshop or a bamboozler.

You're actually seeing the top and bottom of the Apple, it's basically an Apple with a growth problem. Op just added a stem to the butt.

Question: Why isn't there dry human food with all the needed essentials like there is for pets?
Answer: Because we don't want it. There is no demand for it and we prefer a varied diet.

There is [soylent](_URL_0_) which is a smoothie type thing which is essentially all you need to eat. It claims to have all the nutrients, fats, calories and whatnot a human needs to be able to survive on it alone. It exists, but it isn't exactly revolutionizing the way humans eat.

Question: Why is my doctor visit almost double the price when I use my copay and bill it to my insurance?
Answer: Insurance companies only pay a fraction of the billed price so it needs to be marked up.

Question: Why do christians focus so much on the homosexuality part of leviticus but nothing else; i.e. shell fish, tattoos, not shaving...
Answer: Christian here. The simple answer is because its an easy one to pick on and christians don't really understand the references to homosexuality that are made in the bible. (TLDR;)  
  
First of all, this is not an all encompassing truth. As with extremists of other topics, it is always the outspoken and somewhat crazy ones that are heard.  
  
Second, the reference to Leviticus does not apply to Christians today. It was part of the Law of Moses and that law was fulfilled by Jesus when he died on the cross. Anyone who claims this is condemning homosexuality is absolutely correct, but it would be like saying that beheading is a form of capital punishment used in the United States. It used to be true, but no longer is.  
  
Now the meat of it. There are 3 references in the New Testament that could be interpreted as condemning homosexuality. Romans 1:26–27, 1 Corinthians 6:9–10, and 1 Timothy 1:8–11.  
  
Romans 1:26–27 - "26 Because of this, God gave them over to shameful lusts. Even their women exchanged natural sexual relations for unnatural ones. 27 In the same way the men also abandoned natural relations with women and were inflamed with lust for one another. Men committed shameful acts with other men, and received in themselves the due penalty for their error."  
  
I don't think these verses need any explaining if they are taken as is. But reading them as is, is taking them out of context. In Romans 1, Paul is introducing himself to the church in Rome and giving a summary of how things used to be. If you continue reading into Romans 2 (pretend that there is no chapter divider there) and it is plain to see that these things are no longer the case. "You, therefore, have no excuse, you who pass judgment on someone else, for at whatever point you judge another, you are condemning yourself, because you who pass judgment do the same things." - Romans 2:1  
  
1 Corinthians 6:9–10 - "9 Or do you not know that wrongdoers will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived: Neither the sexually immoral nor idolaters nor adulterers nor men who have sex with men[a] 10 nor thieves nor the greedy nor drunkards nor slanderers nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God."

Again, without the context of the rest of the chapter (at least) this looks really bad. But the very next verse reads, "11 And that is what some of you were. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God." The sanctification that this is referencing is explained in more detail in Hebrews 10:12, "12 But when this priest had offered for all time one sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God". The context with this verse to in talking to Christians. It makes no distinction as to if they are homosexual or not.  
  
1 Timothy 1:8–11 - "8 We know that the law is good if one uses it properly. 9 We also know that the law is made not for the righteous but for lawbreakers and rebels, the ungodly and sinful, the unholy and irreligious, for those who kill their fathers or mothers, for murderers, 10 for the sexually immoral, for those practicing homosexuality, for slave traders and liars and perjurers—and for whatever else is contrary to the sound doctrine 11 that conforms to the gospel concerning the glory of the blessed God, which he entrusted to me."  
  
This one actually doesn't need much more context to understand the intent. It is saying that the Old Testament law applies to those types of people. What did we learn earlier? The Old Testament law does not apply to Christians today and that Christians were made righteous by Jesus' sacrifice. So if you are not a Christian then, yes, you will be judged according to that law. But chances are, if you are not a Christian, you don't care. Therefore, a Christian pointing out a non-christian's "sins" is absolutely useless.  
  
I'm sure I made this as clear as mud but the gist of it is that the bible does not teach that a Christian has any right or responsibility to point out the "flaws" in other people. There is nothing in the bible that states that a homosexual cannot be a Christian and maintain their sexual preference. Just like there is nothing in the bible that states that a fat guy can't be a Christian (remember fellow Christians, gluttony is also a sin according to the Old Testament law).  
  
I want to make it clear that I am a Christian and I am happy to see that my fellow brothers and sisters in Christ can now get married to a partner of their choice. I'd be happy to answer any questions in the comments.

Question: Why and how are surgical instruments so often left inside patients?
Answer: This is not as frequent an occurrence as is usually made out to be. But it does happen once in a while when there is too much chaos in the OR or when there is a systematic failure in the steps taken.

There are many safety check employed to prevent such incidents.

All the instruments and pads that go into a surgery are numbered. At the conclusion of a surgery before closure all the hardware and all the pads are counted by the scrub nurse. In addition to this she is expected to keep in her mind the numbers of instruments handled. And when the dirty instruments are sent to the cleaning area the surgical tech also counts them. It is a rule in surgery, nothing leaves or enters an area until it is counted. In case there is a discrepancy the patient is subjected to an x ray and the instrument is retrieved.

Sometimes a second x ray is routinely taken to see if there is any bleeding at the surgery site. If there are instruments left inside they will light up and the surgeon can retrieve it.

The most dangerous are not instuments but broken instruments. Like tips of needles and tips of wires and tips of scalpels. This is where the surgeon's attention to detail comes to play. They by habit are trained to notice everything and be critical about everything. If they notice anything suspicious then they will re measure it and retrieve the lost piece. This is one reason of kind of obsessive personality that we associate surgeons with. They can be very anal retentive and douchey because that makes it safer for the patient.

The third is ornaments. Surgeons before stepping into OR take off all rings, bracelets, earrings and ask the nurses to do the same. Anyone who can get too close to a patient's open cavity should exercise this. Some are very strict and douchey about it. Some not so and they run the risk of the nurse dropping false eyelashes into the abdominal cavity when she moved for a closer look.

The insides of a human are very different from what we have been led to believe through color coded pictures. Everything looks the same and structures are flimsy tiny and covered in a layer of blood. The job of knowing what to cut and how to cut and when to cut and where to cut can be overwhelming. That is why these guys study and practice their art all their life and they are paid big bucks. It indeed is a difficult job

Question: Why has the fasces symbol, which is often associated with fascism, been incorporated by so many official offices and institutions in the United States?
Answer: You've got it backwards. The fasces was a symbol of power which the fascists adopted later, just like how the swastika was a symbols before it was adopted by the Nazis.

It was a symbol of government power going back to the Roman empire, and the founding fathers, who attempted to emulate Rome, adopted it themselves. Mussolini did the same thing, but it was 200 years after the founding of America.

Question: Prior to radios, satellite imagery, and other military technology, how did opposing armies locate eachother for battle?
Answer: So, when you think of things like this, you're probably thinking of something like in the movies, where a few guys are moving through the woods or jungle or wherever and can hide their tracks.

That's not an army.

An army is *thousands* of people. A scout can find traces of 4,000 people walking somewhere -- either from just the massive amounts of tracks left, or the fact that someone will notice thousands of people on their way to somewhere, and one of those people will tell you about it.

Question: What is the feeling of semi-weakness people sometimes get when they are cold?
Answer: At cold temperatures, oxygen is more tightly bound to the hemoglobin in blood and does not release as easily. This slower rate of release leads to a lower amount of oxygen available to your muscles, making contraction more difficult.

Also when we are cold, blood is conserved around our vital organs to ensure our body continues to function, but this part may not be relevant.

Question: If Tupac is dead, who receives the royalties when someone listens to his music? And same for other deceased artists
Answer: Tupac's estate was managed by his mother until she died a few years ago. Control of the estate then passed on to a a trustee that his mother appointed before her death. His mother and now the trustee was the beneficiary of all financial gains from his estate as well as empowered to make legal decisions regarding copyrights, release of previously unreleased music...etc.

Most artists have similar situations in place. Many artists and musicians continue to make millions of dollars a year even decades after their deaths, and they usually have wills that provided instructions for how to manage their estates. For those who die with no will, a court usually grants control of the estate to the next-of-kin, or may divide it up between close relatives if there's a dispute, although disputes can drag on for years.

Question: [BIOLOGY] Why does it hurt when theres air passing through you? Flatulence meaning..
Answer: Excessive gas literally causes your intestines to bloat and stretch. Most of the pain comes from the muscular contractions of your intestines trying to squeeze air instead of digested food which results in cramping pains. A good fart should make things feel better :)

Question: If attorneys have a monopoly on the practice of law, why are they so unwilling to help average citizens?
Answer: If no one was injured (mentally, physically, or monetarily) then there is no case, so that means that you aren't looking to hire legal representation. No chance of pro bono or conditional work from the firm.

What you were looking for in those cases was legal advice. Legal advice is never free from a law firm. It is one of the services that the firm offers, and unless the firm agrees to take you on as a client ($$$) they are not going to waste their time or get involved in the situation.

Additionally, I've heard that there can be legal repercussions for a firm that gives out bad advice to clients, so no law firm is going to take that risk without payment.

Question: What determines a person's sexuality?
Answer: The matter is heavily debated and there's no concise answer to it yet. 

Genetics is a promising possibility, but is confounded by the aforementioned factors involving twins and sexual mismatch. 

There are a large number of interesting sex-related interactions that occur before and shortly after birth.  For example,  the Westemarck Effect makes you immune to finding people you grew up close to sexually attractive (it's why,  generally,  you don't think family members are sexy.) This prevents inbreeding and leads to more fit children. 

As for before birth,  recent studies have indicated the possibility that female mothers "feminize"  males because their immune system attacks the non-matching male fetus.  This was proposed to explain why later male children are more likely to be feminine or gay.

There are other,  less formal correlations being investigated,  such as that between being abused sexually when young and having pedophilic tendencies. 

At the heart of it is simply that we don't know.  We know for certain that biology plays a very large part,  but there's very little certainty that any one mechanism accounts for an individual's sexuality entirely. 

 On a genetic level nothing is as cut-and-dry as "you have gene therefore you'll be this way or that way" because that ignores a large number of regulatory mechanisms your cells have to control gene expression past just the code itself. 

It's highly unlikely the answer to this question will be simple in the foreseeable future.

Question: Why drug treatment seems to be so popular in US for various psychological disorders ?
Answer: Because it makes people money, and it's the answer people want to hear. Most people don't want to be told that dealing with certain problems is going to take an immense amount of work and time, that things are not going to immediately be better.

Of course, there are a great deal of disorders than can only be effectively treated with medicine, but those are not the most common.

Question: How is the ratio between different currencies calculated?
Answer: Short answer - the market.

The exchange rate is decided by people buying and selling currency.  So the market thinks that 1 Euro is = to $1.25.  Therefore that's what the rate is.

Question: When a meteorite strikes a planet and leaves a crater, why is there a big hole but no meteorite in it?
Answer: When it hits the planet, there is so much energy it literally explodes. That's why there's a crater and nothing bigger than meteorite gravel left behind.

Think about tossing a snowball at a wall.

Question: what the deal is with Hugo Chavez?
Answer: I don't want to start a debate but Booyahhayoob's little recounting leaves rather a lot to be desired.  While this isn't comprehensive, here are a few of the major issues that have occurred with the Chavez regime:

1) Food shortages.  In 2003, Chavez imposed price controls on food.  As is predictable by basic economic theory, these led to shortages as food was hoarded, smuggled out of the country to be sold elsewhere,  or simply not grown to avoid taking a loss.  In recent years the Chavez government has seized farms and food warehouses, arrested people for exporting food, and ordered farmers to meet minimum production quotas.  Government-seized and -run farms have had massive amounts of waste and inefficiency, leaving food to rot as cronies without any agricultural experience were put in charge of the nation's food supply.

2) Suppression of free speech.  Opposition media have repeatedly been [fined, shut down, and attacked](_URL_0_) for criticizing the regime.

3) Increasing crime.  The murder rate has more than doubled under the Chavez regime.  Kidnappings have become commonplace (for an idea of this see the movie 'Secuestro Express').  Drug trafficking is on the rise.

All this does not even take into account the widespread corruption, the decline in the Venezuelan oil industry, or the [crazy statements](_URL_1_) Chavez makes on the world stage.

Question: Why is what's going on in Ukraine right now not already considered war?
Answer: It's not a war because Russia hasn't formally declared war on the entire country and has only moved units into the eastern portion currently being contested. If they insert unmarked units there, it's not war because they still officially deny that the units are theirs, meaning that they're supporting the rebels by proxy. 

Ukraine, NATO, and most external observers know that they're Russian, but even Russia doesn't want a formal declaration of war. 

It's what the new kids call a 'low intensity conflict'. This is different from full-scale conventional warfare in that they are restrained from using their full capabilities for political reasons, and their operational area does not include the entire country or engaging its national forces. 

Granted, this particular conflict is going to be a lot hotter than what are normally considered 'low intensity', but it looks as though Russia doesn't want to commit to rolling over the Ukrainians with their considerable amount of available forces.

Question: "It is the sense of being watched that constrains social action" (Mirzoeff 1999, 2009:45).
Answer: What do you not understand/need help elaborating on?

There are a number of social psychology experiments you could reference here. There's also an entire literature on whether lab experimentation is generalizable to the population, given the influence of the lab itself- ie. people likely act differently when they're either not in a natural surrounding, or are being watched. Self control is higher when individuals are in a social context than when they're by themselves, etc. 

There was an article posted recently (I believe in /r/TwoXChromosomes, but that could be wrong) that talked about how often women subconsciously adjust themselves- either their hair, clothing, facial expression, etc. in public. This could also tie in.

Question: Who is the USA so in debt to?
Answer: This article explains it:

_URL_0_

Most of the debt is owned by a domestic organization called "social security". I'm assuming you Americans know what that is. Some sort of social safety net provider?

Anyway bottom line is US debt is denominated in USD and the federal reserve can print unlimited quantities of that so you are never in danger of defaulting on your debt. 

Other countries have their external debt denominated in foreign currencies which they can't print themselves so they get into trouble because of that. But America doesn't have that problem.

Question: Why do NCAA basketball rules differ so much from NBA rules? E.g., different 3pt distance, different free throw rules, different time format
Answer: The NCAA is unofficially a minor league player development system for the NBA, but the people running it, don't work for the NBA, and don't particularly care about developing NBA Talent. There's a degree of inertia here, in that college basketball has been around a really long time(longer than the NBA) with their own set of rules, and don't feel the need to change them just because that's what the NBA is doing. You see the same thing with the various rule differences between College Football and the NFL.

Question: Why do man made satellites, such as the ISS, appear bright like stars when they pass overhead even though they have no signifigant light source?
Answer: If you ever look at the ISS sighting times for your city, you will notice they are always early morning or late evening - never the middle of the night. This is because the sky has to be dark to see it, but the spacecraft must still be in view of the sun to reflect its light.

When you watch the ISS go by what often happens is that it appears over the horizon, travels in an arc for a few minutes and then just dissapears, this is because the station has crossed the terminator - it has passed into the shadow of the earth.

_URL_0_

Question: Can black holes bend light from planets so we are actually seeing them in the wrong place?
Answer: This is an occurrence known as gravitational lensing and isn't specific to black holes, but any object with significant mass.  Objects whose light is bent do then appear in the "wrong" place. We can even see objects (stars, galaxies) that would've been otherwise obstructed (blocked) from vision if lensing didn't occur.

Question: Why does tomato ketchup taste nothing like tomatoes
Answer: Ketchup contains a lot of sugar and vinegar, both of which will mask the flavor of a tomato, not to mention also mask the flavor of the food you use it on. There's usually plenty of sodium in ketchup as well, which will overwhelm your tastebuds, hiding the tomato flavor even further.

Question: Why do organized crime groups(especially well-known ones, such as Mafias etc.) still exist and thrive? Why are they not being taken down?
Answer: They are being taken down, these groups are far less prevalent and forward than they used to be.

That being said, in order to take one down law enforcement has to nab the leadership and charge them with a crime that will stick them behind bars for years--decades ideally. That is very hard since the brains of the operation generally do not participate in the crime directly, nor do they stand on the street corner talking about it. This sort of thing usually requires getting someone in the group to talk to law enforcement, wear a wire, steal and turn over any paper records, etc. It can take years sometimes.

A lot of the low-level 'enforcer' positions and sometimes even middle-management roles ARE caught frequently, but those positions are just "rehired/promoted" in any sufficiently large organization and the 'work' continues until the leadership is all taken apart. Often the guys who *do* get taken in are turned as part of a plea deal to help take down the top end. many do remain loyal, but when a deal is struck that is often the crack law enforcement needs to start building a strategy.

Edit: a really well established and run operation may continue to operate even if leadership is behind bars, the boss(es) may issue orders from behind bars, or may leave instructions or a contingency plan that will continue to be followed by the remaining group. It is really hard to *completely* dismantle some of the stronger, well-run groups.

Question: Why is the current generation waiting for the baby boomers to die out?
Answer: They're the ones running the world.  They have all the jobs, all the money, run all the businesses  &  control the government.  The younger generations, even into their 30s and 40s, are left with a world run by their parents that they can't change.

Question: Why don't highlighter colors exist on anything digital?
Answer: Highlighter colors are a type of [blacklight-reactive ink](_URL_0_).  They reflect light like normal, but they *also* absorb ultraviolet light and re-remit it at a visible wavelength.  That means that the ink appears brighter than it should given the level of ambient light, making it look like it's glowing.

Computer monitors are already glowing, so you can't really have this type of phenomenon with a lit screen.

Question: Germans eat raw pork, almost nobody gets sick
Answer: I believe that prosciutto is also raw pork that has been carefully prepared and aged. In the case of Mett,

 >  Unless pre-packaged, the German Hackfleischverordnung ("minced meat directive") permits mett to be sold only on the day of production.

That is likely to keep it safe to eat, and it may be subject to more rigorous testing standards as well.

Question: Zeitgest
Answer: Spirit of the times.  A zeitgeist is a collection of generalizations regarding a specific era of time and place so we can intelligently speak about different sociological trends.  For example, the zeitgeist of post-9-11 was very patriotic and fearful, so that affected many of our laws, foreign policy, and how individuals treat outsiders.  In the 60s, the zeitgeist was that of optimism and change.  People felt that they could change the world.  80s was a bit more materialistic, and 90s was a bit nihilistic, etc.

It's kinda like the mood of an era.  It not only colors the structure of the society, but also in that society's culture.  Fight Club (and the Matrix), for example, could only have come out of the Zeitgeist of the 90s.

Question: My brother just came in and took me to say silk 5 times and spell it. Then he asked me what do cows drink and I responded "milk" even though it is water. Why did I say this?
Answer: In addition to what /r/katembers says, you're not actually wrong.

Calves drink milk.

Calves are baby cows.

Therefore cows drink milk.

So feel free to go right back in there, whack your dumb brother on the side of his fool head, and pronounce this truth to demonstrate your accuracy.

Question: Russia's political system and it's democratic system.
Answer: In some ways Russia has a good democracy. The president is limited to two sequential terms (although the president can run again after a break). Theoretically there are three branches of power (judicial, executive, and the duma), and the constitution gives the right for multiple parties to operate.

In reality, Putin has been president for most of the time since 1998 (?correct?) and has "swapped" positions with his prime minister medveyev to get around the presidential terms limits.

Also any real opposition parties are harassed or jailed out of existence. They are denied official funding, any locals who fund them also get harassed, and if they take foreign funding then they are "obvious traitors". There are several accepted and tolerated parties but these are all loyal to Putin and the kremlin.

So it has most of the trappings and features of a modern democracy, but since no real opposition is allowed to grow, it is functionaly an oligarchy.

It is worth mentioning that Putin's approval rating is really high. He doesn't always need to do very much to rig elections (except in big cities like Moscow). In regional areas his level of support is something western leaders could only dream of. Of course, since he doesn't allow anyone to speak against him... that partially explains that!

Question: Why metal is forbidden from the microwave.
Answer: Not really an expert on this, but basically the way microwaves work is they send a lot of microwaves (duh) across the heating chamber. This makes the particles of items inside move a lot faster and therefore raise the temperature of the item. This works fine for foods etc, but for metals accelerating the particles means creating electricity. All that electricity cannot be contained inside the metal (since it is a conductor, which means it only passes the current along). This causes the electricity to escape in form of sparks. I don't think I need to explain to you why sparks flying freely inside an electronic device can be dangerous ;)
  
  Hope I made it clear enough?

Question: How does a hose work with an attachment? How does it not explode off? Does the water pressure stop?
Answer: >  Does the water pressure stop?

Pressure is static, it doesn't change. When allowed the escape the water will constantly flow out but when stopped it doesn't continually build up. Normal water pressure is about 40-45 psi.

Question: How much saliva does a human produce each day, and what is it made out of?
Answer: Daily salivary output. There is much debate about the amount of saliva that is produced in a healthy person perday; estimates range from 0.75 to 1.5 litres per day while it is generally accepted that during sleep the amount drops to nearly zero.

Human saliva comprises 99.5% mostly water, plus electrolytes, mucus, white blood cells, epithelial cells (which can be used to extract DNA), glycoproteins, enzymes (such as amylase and lipase), antimicrobial agents such as secretory IgA and lysozyme.

_URL_0_

Seriously, you couldn't just do one quick Google search?

Question: Can someone explain the fall of the Soviet Union (like I am five)?
Answer: Leonid Brezhnev died in 1982, after almost two decades in power as the General Secretary of the Communist Party (de facto leader of the USSR). He was senile and barely functioned in his last years.

With his death, an era ended in Soviet history that later came to be called *zastoy*, or "stagnation". It was a time of relative economic prosperity, relatively little repression, but an extreme sense of loss of purpose. The idea of building an ideal (Communist, i.e. classless and prosperous) society at some point in the future seemed to have lost the last of its credibility, as the Soviet system disintegrated into dreary self-serving bureaucracy, with the nepotist Party elite at the top. The war in Afghanistan deepened the moral crisis.

Brezhnev was succeeded by two equally old and ailing leaders, Andropov and then Chernenko. Both died early into their second year in office.

Mikhail Gorbachev was appointed General Secretary in 1985. He was much younger (54 at the time) and seemed like a welcome change.

He was indeed eager to revitalise the Soviet system, mostly its economy. By 1986, he became convinced that a major political reform was also necessary. This is how the concept of _perestroika_ ("rebuilding" or "redesigning") was born. Its purpose was a more democratic version of Socialism. The second of Gorbachev's famous concepts, *glasnost* (a word used to describe the "openness" of some proceedings to the public), was introduced in 1988, bringing an unprecedented degree of free speech.

What followed was basically a runaway reaction. While Gorbachev wanted a new and better Soviet Union, a critical mass of people wanted to get rid of the Communist system altogether. In Russia, there was a surge of popular interest in the West as well as in the pre-revolutionary Empire; in other republics of USSR, nationalist movements quickly gained in popularity; most markedly, the secessionist movements in the Baltics and the ethnic conflict between Armenians and Azeris over the disputed territory of Nagorno-Karabakh. 

In the meantime, the economic situation became markedly worse than in the previous decade; there were shortages of all but the most basic food, ratio cards, long queues, etc. This added to the discontent.

Against this background emerged Boris Yeltsin, a former Party functionary who called for much more radical reforms than Gorbachev's, and stopped *just* short of expressing anti-Communist views. Gorbachev was rather disliked for his long-windedness and inefficiency by that time, and Yeltsin, as a kind of antithesis, rallied massive support.

The entire Communist system now seemed on the verge of collapse, as revolutions swept across Eastern Europe, Gorbachev deciding not to interfere. As a last-ditch effort, Gorbachev proposed a new Union Treaty (to replace the 1922 one that had established the USSR), effectively "rebooting" the country as a much more decentralised and democratic entity with a market-socialist economy. In the meantime, Yeltsin had been elected as the president of Russia (in case this is confusing: "USSR" vs. "Russia" ~= "UK" vs. "England"), effectively creating a dual-government situation on most of the Soviet territory.

On 19 August 1991, one day before the new treaty was due to be signed, a group of hard-liners (calling themselves the Emergency State Committee or _URL_0_.P.) staged a coup in Moscow, arresting Gorbachev at his summer house in Foros, Crimea. Yeltsin declared the _URL_0_.P. illegal and rallied hundreds of thousands of his supporters to the defence of the Russian government building. They were sieged by tanks and troops for two nights; the _URL_0_.P. did not dare to commit and cause a bloodbath so only three young men on Yeltsin's side were killed in minor skirmishes. On August 21, the _URL_0_.P. gave up and went to Foros to negotiate with Gorbachev, who had them arrested.

This was seen as Yeltsin's definitive victory and the end of Communism; Gorbachev was left as the head of a state most people perceived as non-existent. In December 1991, Yeltsin signed an accord with the presidents of Ukraine and Belarus formalising the dissolution of the USSR. Whether the three had any legal authority to abolish the Soviet Union is still debated; that is to say, they did not have that authority under the existing law, but nobody cared. Most if not all Soviet republics had already proclaimed independence at that point. Gorbachev resigned on 25 December 1991 and the USSR officially ceased to exist the following day.

TL;DR: Communism had become a hollowed-out shell; along came Gorbachev and opened a Pandora's box.

Question: What is the true purpose of "Tag a friend who ..." spam-posts on facebook?
Answer: Generating range, e.g., exposure. Getting a brands' name 'out there'. Every view, every click, every page loaded is, at its base level, an interaction with a brand, or product and a potential customer.  
Any page, be it a standalone website, a facebook page, a blog or whatever kind of means a company decides to use to promote a product, is 'counted' by said customer interactions. This is usually called the 'range' said medium can generate.  
  
An example from Twitter would be someone with 10 followers, writing a tweet. Let's assume that all 10 followers each have 10 followers of their own and all 10 retweet this one tweet. This means, with one tweet, the tweet is seen by (10x10) 100 possible customers.  
Now imagine a tweet written by someone who has 1000 followers, each with 100 followers. If only half of those followers retweet this single tweet, we're already at (500x100) 50.000 possible customers being exposed to the companys' product. Thus the range in the latter example is way higher, than in the former.  
  
This range is valuable in terms of what a marketing company, or similar, is willing (or has to) pay for their commercial to appear on said medium. That also is the reason why, in comparison, a print ad is much cheaper, than a tv ad - their range is hugely different.  
  
So, to come to a stop, all these 'tag a friend that...' sites try to enhance their own range, be it to gain a better position to sell their own products, *or* to have better 'arguments' when dealing with other marketing companies that want to place ads on their site.

Question: Why is pressure measured in inches?
Answer: It's measured in inches of mercury (inHg).   

Pressure used to be measured compared to how much pressure an inch of mercury in a glass column exerted. Or the other way round, how much a certain pressure moved the mercury. Simply, you have a container of mercury with a tube standing in it. Air pressure pressing down on the pool of mercury forces it up the tube. How far up the tube it goes tells you the pressure in inches of mercury.    

Otherwise, it can be measured in psi (pounds per square inch) which is just the imperial version of the metric newtons per square metre. Literally how much force is applied to the area you're measuring.

Question: Why don't game AIs use self-learning behavior like they do with robotics simulations?
Answer: Genetic algorithms (not Markov chains) are not without their problems, but I think you fundamentally miss the point of game AI here.  It's not supposed to be good at it's job.  It's supposed to be believable.  You want the guards to act like real human guards, for example.  I can tell you pretty categorically that the easiest way to do that is to programme them.  Genetic algorithms might lead you to an *effective* solution, but would it look natural or believable?  Would it be enjoyable to play against?  Probably not.

Question: Do really small creatures have self-awareness?
Answer: Awareness is an emergent property of the complexity of our brain. Only brains that are able to reach a certain level of complexity are able to create awareness. Only in a couple of species awareness has been proven, and all in a limited way when compared to humans. 

In some way, the behavior of insects is more comparable to a robot than to a human. Basic input/output, although the behavior of most insects is far more complex than that of robots. You can think of the complexity of behavior as a spectrum, with the simplest single cell organisms on one side and humans and other large animals on the other side. As a kind of general rule: the tinier a species is, the less room there is for brains/neural networks, the less complex it behavior can be. Awareness only exists on the very far end of the spectrum.

Question: The ridiculously high and growing suicide rate in Japan.
Answer: Suicide rates among males have always been high in Japan. 

The culture praises both a collectivist mentality to supporting the group, plus a strong sense of personal honor. When a man supposes that his utility to the group is less than his contribution (due to age, infirmary, failure or circumstances beyond his control) and/or his honor has been compromised in a way that it can not be recovered, suicide is considered a way to recover that honor or cease to be a burden.

Question: Why doesn’t stereo volume stop at a point before distortion occurs in stock speakers? Conversely, why don’t stock speakers hold up to the capability of their stereo counterparts?
Answer: Manufacturers often make more variety of speaker than head unit, so low quality speakers are often paired with more powerful head units. They want to keep the overall system inexpensive, but they're not able to get a cheaper head unit.

Question: Why do my eyes water when I do a really satisfying wee?
Answer: A great piss can beat an ejaculation in my honest opinion. You know that piss that you have been holding onto since breaking the piss seal 56 minutes earlier at the train station. And in that 56 minutes those last minute traveller beers have mutated into an agonising need to evacuate your bladder only exacerbated by the constant rocking of the carriage.  When you arrive at your destination, a quick sprint is followed by a godly piss lasting what seems like hours, you can only breath a sigh of relief as this orgasmic piss escapes... thats what I live for

Question: Why do we sneeze sometimes as a response to pain?
Answer: The nerves in your face are very close together and sometimes a signal on one can cause an adjacent one to fire. 

Same reason some people sneeze in bright light.

Question: Dimples on a golf ball, how do they work?
Answer: When a fluid (such as air) flows around an spherical object like a ping pong ball, it creates a lot of drag. This is due to a boundary layer of slower moving air really close to the surface of the ball. A ping pong ball will have have a smooth boundary layer. Eventually this layer seperates from the ball. A smooth layer "peels" off the ball quite early, creating a big wake of turbulent air, think of a wake behind a boat. The dimples on the golf ball force the boundary layer to transition from being laminar to turbulent. This increases the speed of a the air moving in the layer, so it's able to stick to the ball for longer, and peel off the ball later. This creates a thinner wake, which creates less drag. 

This image sums it up pretty well:
_URL_0_

A similar effect would be achieved by roughening the ball at the very front that's flying through the air. As long as the little peaks created by the roughness exceed the height of this tiny boundary layer, it'll force it to go turblent, and will therefore fly further. But then there's no way to guarantee that this little patch of roughness will be at the very front of the ball, so it's much easier to put dimples over the entire ball to ensure that no matter what, the boundary layer will go turbulent.

Question: pointers in C or C++ and how to use them successfully
Answer: A pointer is a package of ( if you want to think about it in the most technical way ) a 4/8 byte integer (depends on if you compile a 32bit or 64bit binary) with some address in the memory of the system, and a size. The size specifies how large in bytes the thing it points to is, or the size in bytes of each element in the array it points to. (Although the system has no idea if what it really points to is that size or whether it's an array or not, so it's up to you to keep track of these details. Follow coding conventions and it's not that hard.)

To really understand pointers you need to understand what I said about it being an address in memory - you need to remember that when I run a program there's a bunch of RAM put aside for that program and it's organized sequentially. Every byte in the RAM has a unique address.

You also need to keep in mind that everything in the program is put into the RAM. When I declare char x; a single byte of RAM is allocated for x. Whenever I later call x the system will reference its index to figure out "Oh, right, I put x at this address, and since x is of type char I know it takes up 1 byte."

So if I say printf("%c", x); later the system knows to go to x's address and pull 1 byte to get x.

When you declare a pointer you're taking a more direct control of what's happening - when I say char* ptr I'm essentially saying "Listen, I know what I'm doing, I'll do the memory management myself!" When you declare a character point there is no memory set aside for a character. 

So let's say that I'm now doing this:

    ...  
    int varInt = 10;  
    int* varIntPtr =  & varInt;  

What has actually happened? (Remember that the  &  operator means 'give me the address of this element')

Well the computer allocates 4 bytes (Let's assume, it's usually correct) for the integer varInt, figures out what 10 is when expressed as a 4 byte integer, and copies that into the 4 bytes allocated for varInt.

The computer then allocates 4 bytes for the integer point varIntPtr, figures out what the address of varInt is, and puts the value of that address into the 4 bytes allocated to varIntPtr.

So what have we really done so far? Well, not a whole let. Let's move on:

    *varIntPtr = 7;  
    cout  <  <  varInt;  

So what will be output? If you thought 10, you thought wrong. I set varIntPtr to the address of varInt, and (remember that the * operator means 'follow this address' - it will take the value that comes after it and go to that location in memory) set the value stored at that address to be 7. This overwrites the original 10 we put in there.

So what's this all actually useful for? All we did was make a new name for varInt and gained nothing, right? Well actually, yeah, that is right, but only in this case. There are times when that ability is indispensable. 

You've likely already learned about functions: if I have someFunction( int x ) that, as you can see, takes an integer I can define someFunction like this:

    void someFunction( int x ){ x = x + 10; }  

So I can just go:

    int x = 10;  
    someFunction( x );

and now x = 20, right? Well no. The way scope works in C/C++ is that when you pass a variable by its name like that the function will make a copy of that variable for its own use - there will be new memory allocated and a new x that only exists inside someFunction. 

Usually if we want to change x in some way with a function we'd just have the function copy x, do what it needs to, then use a return statement to get the changed version and make that the new value of x:
    
    int someFunction( int x ) { return x + 10; }
    x = someFunction( x );

but what if I want to do something to 3 different integers? You can only return a single variable! The easiest way here is to do this:

    void someFunction( int* x, int* y, int* z ){ *x = 1; *y = 2; *z = 3; }

and then when I call someFunction on 3 integer pointers I know they'll be 1, 2 and 3 respectively because the function changed what's physically stored in memory, not a copy.

There are also much more advanced things that you'd probably find hard to understand now, or at least to understand the use of. You can actually make pointers that point to a function rather than a variable, for example.

You've probably already been using pointers actually - in C/C++ there's no difference whatsoever between an array and a pointer. When I say

    int[10] x;

what happens is that the system allocates 4 bytes * 10 = 40 bytes to an integer pointer named x. The [ ] are actually an operator called the index operator - whatever number you put in the brackets will be used to scan through memory.

If integers are 4 bytes long on your system the system will interpret x[3] to mean "Take the address of X and move 4 bytes along it 3 times" This is why arrays start at 0 - because x[0] means start at the beginning of the array, and don't shift at all.

The system doesn't remember, though, that you declared x as having 10 elements. In C/C++ it's totally OK for you to say 

    int[10] x;  
    x[15] = 50;

the system will actually write the integer value 50 into the memory location 15 * 4 bytes after the address of x. This is a very bad idea, though, because we have no idea what is supposed to be at that point in memory - it may be that memory is allocated to a different variable we've made, it could be that it's not allocated to us at all and the operating system will crash our program for violating memory. (That's a segmentation fault if you've seen any of those kill a program of yours yet.)

Even if it appears to be fine you can't trust it is - you need to make sure for yourself that you know how much space is allocated and to keep inside it.

Question: Why does video compression make red so pixelated?
Answer: This can be an effect of "Chroma subsampling": _URL_0_

In ELI5, more compression is done to the color parts of images/video than to the black-and-white parts of it. This saves a lot of space but is not _that_ noticable to us usually.

Question: Why is Republican leadership voting to approve Obama's budget?
Answer: There are several parts to the Bipartisan Budget Agreement. 

* It eases spending caps for FY 2016 and FY 2017. That includes defense spending which is huge for defense hawk Republicans. 

* It takes the possibility of going beyond the debt limit/extraordinary measures off the table which provides stability in the marketplace. This is beneficial to Republicans who understand what would happen if there market meltdown if the U.S. credit is downgraded again. 

* It "Cleans the barn" for Speaker Ryan. That is to say it gives Speaker Ryan a relatively clean slate to start working on bigger spending cuts and mandatory spending reforms with the Freedom Caucus. So "establishment" types are helping Ryan start on stronger footing. 

* And on top of all of that, the spending cap increases are offset elsewhere in the bill. That includes mandatory reforms in Medicare, Social Security, and Social Security Disability Insurance.

Question: Can ice get old? If so, how long does it take and what happens to it?
Answer: Ummm glaciers? Pretty sure those are like upwards of 100000+ years old and are still palatable

Question: Why are there "runts" of, for instance, a litter of puppies?
Answer: They were just born smaller then the rest, and when it comes to feeding time they get pushed to the side by the bigger puppies. Why it happens is just genetics, they got the short straw and ended up a little smaller, aka they are the Runt of the litter.

Question: Why is it commonly assumed that water is a prerequisite for (extraterrestrial) life?
Answer: Basically, we haven't seen any exceptions to the rule "life needs water," so we aren't making any guesses about what kinds of "other life" might arise.

To put it another way, it's totally possible that there are rock monsters living on some far-off planet that don't need water and don't look like any other life that we know of.  But even if we looked at that planet... how would we even know what we were looking at and how would we know to classify it as "life?"  

Instead, we work with the information we know, and we pay special attention to the planets with liquid water.  On those planets, we at least know there's a chance.

Question: How does Flonase work?
Answer: Flonase is fluticasone, a corticosteroid. Basically it's a synthetic derivative from a class of chemical naturally occurring in your body which function to regulate immune response, among other things. When you have a stuffy nose due to allergies is because your immune system is over-reacting to the allergen. Fluticasone acts on immune cells etc to reduce their activity (anti-inflammatory / immunosuppressant). 

For example, the excess fluid is often caused by substances released by immune cells that cause your nose blood vessels to become leaky, so fluid can get out and clog up your nose.

Question: When did Westward expatiation put an end to the "Wild West"?
Answer: The U.S. census officially declared the western frontier to be closed in 1890. Thus, the year 1890 is traditionally considered to mark the end of the "Wild West".

Question: Why aren't there any well known businesses that existed before the industrial era?
Answer: [There are a few](_URL_0_), but most companies from that era just didn't last into the modern age.

A few breweries and textile operations have been around for hundreds of years, but all the plague doctors and sail-riggers are out of business.

Question: when I go to delete or move a file open in another program why doesn't Windows tell me which program I should close?
Answer: Because it's simply not the default behaviour of the OS. The phrase you're looking for is "which process has a handle to this file" - there are a number of utilities, such as Process Explorer by Sysinternals, that can illuminate handles for you

Question: Why do some people call muslims moslems?
Answer: I think it's just a language thing. That first syllable in "Muslim" is a sound that you won't really find in the English language. Some say Moslem, some say Mooslim, when it's really right down the middle. Muslim.

Source: Brown person who speaks brown person languages that contains sounds problematic for English-only speakers.

Question: How does an Anti Virus know whats a Virus and what isnt?
Answer: It typically has two layers of defense.

The first is the actual signature database. It's a bunch of "wanted" posters, a catalogue of *known* malware.

The second layer is searching for suspicious activity. Executables that run themselves automatically, request access to key systems and otherwise do shady stuff are going to be tagged as suspicious, and possibly relayed to the antivirus's producers for analysis.

Question: Does the numerical order of dimensions matter? Does time need to be, explicitly, the 4th dimension?
Answer: Not really. The first three, length, width, and depth were accepted as "dimensions" after René Descartes described how to find something's location. But as theoretical mathematics provided new things that counted as "dimensions," they just tacked it onto the list.

Question: Why does Obamacare get so much bad press?
Answer: The Affordable Care Act (aka Obamacare) is not the same thing as universal healthcare. It has a lot of issues, but it has also solved a lot of problems. There is definitely room for reform, but I don't condemn it, nor do I think all liberals feel one way or the other on it.

Question: Steganography
Answer: You can hide any data in an image file.  Of course, the amount of data you can hide is limited. At some point, you will visibly affect the image file, so the data won't be "hidden" any more. 
   
But if you hid a virus or other malicious code, I don't see how you could get it to execute.  (Unless someone extracted it from the image file and deliberately ran it.)

Question: Why do race cars omit airbags in their cars?
Answer: The purpose of an airbag is to keep your head from slamming against the dashboard and causing an injury. It is necessary because the seatbelts we use do not fully prevent your body from flailing about.

Race car drivers are fully secured with a system of harnesses and don't move as violently during an accident. An airbag would not provide any additional safety.

I'm not an expert, so I'm not exactly sure how it could be more dangerous. Perhaps it would prevent safety officials from getting the driver out of a wrecked car.

Question: Why is identifying as another gender ok but identifying as another race crazy?
Answer: Duplicate of other posts

_URL_1_

_URL_2_

_URL_0_

_URL_3_

Question: What is International Monetary Fund ? What are their objectives ?
Answer: Since the early 70's the IMF has existed as a bank of last resort for troubled economies.  

A hallmark of dysfunctional countries is that they develop foreign borrowing based economies, which means that in order to function those countries need to continue borrowing money from foreigners to help finance a government deficit.  

But foreign borrowing is not a sustainable economic model.  At some point the money needs to be paid back, which requires even more foreign borrowing and that feeds into a cycle that eventually ends when foreigners lose confidence in a government's ability to pay the money back.  Once that happens, the economy collapses back to its pre-foreign borrowing state, which in many cases is to a sort of pre-industrial, agricultural based economy that is too small to support its current population - leading to starvation.

Good examples of economies like this are North Korea in the early to mid 90s, Greece from the late 2000's to the present, and Venezuela from the present to the foreseeable future.  And the North Korean collapse in the early 90's is a model scenario for what happens if no one steps in and bails the government out.  If you're unfamiliar with that, roughly 20ish% of the population starved to death and most of the country's infrastructure and industrial capacity was destroyed.  Even after 25 years, the North Korean economy has still not returned to where it was pre-collapse and very little of that is due to the sanctions on it since it only ever traded with China and Russia to begin with and neither of those countries has restricted trade to it.

The IMF exists to step in and serve a source of foreign loans while imposing conditions that are designed to reduce the country's dependency upon foreign money.  Because the country receiving IMF loans is being weened off foreign money, its going to go through a period during which it experiences a severe economic depression and it usually comes out worse off than it went in.  This typically makes IMF loans unpopular with the people of the country receiving them.

But the basic idea is that the country is overall better off taking the IMF loans because the alternative is, again, a North Korea-esq collapse in which a decent percentage of the country's population just starves to death and all of the country's infrastructure rots away.

Question: Why do some dogs not eat over their bowl?
Answer: It has to do with the "fitness" of the dog. i.e., an alpha dog would not do this. This is because in the wild, the stronger dog will have taken a bigger part in the hunting of the food, simultaneously less threatened overall, while the less fit dogs in the pack will likely obtain the "scraps" of meat and retreat to eat it without fear of losing it.

It's instinct and evolution, really.

_URL_0_

Question: Stem Cells. What they are and the controversy about them?
Answer: This has been asked many times, but I think having someone actually answer you personally causes you to get more out of the response. 

Overview of DNA/RNA: Every cell in your body (not including your sperm or egg) have the same DNA. DNA is like a giant (and I mean giant) library. Individual units of DNA are called nucleotides (A,T,C,G) which act in segments of 3. Your cellular machinery reads these segments and produces mRNA (messenger RNA) in a process know as transcription. Then this RNA is sent to a ribosome which turns the mRNA into a protein in a process known as translation. This is called the central dogma (replication is also included in this). 

Development: These expressed proteins (which were made from DNA)  can repress and activate DNA in itself and other cells around it, so in effect, can cause other cells around it to choose a cell pathway. Each cell starts as a stem cell and then, given these chemical signals, differentiates into something else. Initially the stem cell is totipotent (can become anything) it gets slightly differentiated and becomes pleuripotent (can become a few things). Eventually they become liver cells, heart cells, muscle, skin etc depending on the chemical signals they receive from the cells around them. Eventually these cells form really complex structures like the brain, nervous system, and body plan (body plan is regulated by hox genes). 

Importance/controversy: A stem cell can form any organ theoretically, so they have a spectacular clinical application. The controversy around them comes from the mindset (not necessarily incorrect) that stem cells are living human beings (egg merged with sperm) and should have rights just like any other human being. It really depends on when you believe life begins. Embryonic stem cells are totipotent (can form anything) and are easily attained in vitro (in a test tube) when sperm and egg are merged to form a zygote (tiny baby). So the controversy mainly stems from a religious aspect (when does the soul or life force enter the body?). A huge issue with not pursuing further research is that other countries will be far advanced in medical practices, and US citizens will start going over seas for new medical procedures that we could perform here and give American doctors, nurses, and researchers jobs.

Question: Why is it some people have huge bulging veins on their arms and others can never achieve that even working out their forearms.
Answer: it has almost nothing to do with musculature and everything to do with bodyfat. if you have fat covering your veins, you'll never see them. the people you're observing are almost definitely leaner than you are.

of course, it's not a hard and fast rule and some lean people won't be very vascular, but it applies (anecdotally speaking, at least) more than 95% of the time. 

source: have been working out for 4 years always with an emphasis on science and using practical applications of that science, (most 'excercise science' studies were performed by and on people who know next to nothing about working out), know a hell of a lot more about fitness/working out than most people

Question: How high and far could you jump on Pluto?
Answer: Gravity on Pluto is about 1/15 of gravity on Earth, or about half of the Moon's gravity. If we assume you can put the same energy into your jump as you can on Earth, you'll leave the ground at the same speed and jump 15 times higher than you can on Earth. You're also in the air for 15 times longer, so if you also take off with the same horizontal speed as you can manage on Earth, you'll jump 15 times further. I suspect that with enough practice (and really good running spikes) you'd actually be able to run a bit faster on Pluto because you could put more of the energy from each stride into forward motion and less into upwards movement.

Question: What would really happen if everyone tried to empty their bank accounts all at once?
Answer: It's called a bank run. Without intervention from a central government or reserve bank, the bank will go bust, and most people will lose their money. 

Most countries use a system called fractional reserve banking. Under this system banks only have to hold a fraction of their deposits in reserve, say for example 10%. They lend the rest out to make money. They are counting on only needing this amount of money day to day. Typically, all of the banks customers won't want their money all at once. If more is withdrawn (usually this happens in extreme circumstances, a banking crisis for example) everyone's accounts are frozen, and the country's reserve bank can step in to guarantee the rest, as the lender of last resort, depending on the jurisdiction.

Khan Academy did a good explanation on this. ~~I'll link to it when I have time~~

E: _URL_1_

This happened most recently with the Northern Rock bank in the UK in 2007. They needed the Bank of England to lend it money so they could give their customers their money.

E: _URL_0_

Question: Why was/is there no special prosecutor for the top secret emails or Flynn unmasking or Clinton foundation?
Answer: There have been no credible issues with the Clinton Foundation. It's routinely one of the top rated charities in the world and publishes audited financial statements. 

_URL_0_

_URL_1_

Question: Is the time a spiral or a line?
Answer: The second law of thermodynamics says that enthropy always increases.


I believe we model time based on said law, because there's a clear distinction between lower and higher enthropy (past and future).


Whether time acts as a spiral or line depends on it's rate of change. Meaning if enthropy(time) increases in a linear fashion, then it acts as a line. 


Not sure how we can describe time as a spiral in it's natural definition, although, as human beings we might experience time as a spiral. If I understand correctly, "spiral" in this context means that time progresses slower as it expands (distance between seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, years are larger), assuming we start in the middle. This description might be correct for us earthlings, as space only gets colder and colder - meaning everything in the universe becomes a bit slower, including the earth's spin; so it might take a lot longer for us to witness dusk to dawn.


[MinutePhysics on time and enthropy](_URL_0_)



**This is mostly just what I come to think of at the top of my head**

Question: When did a tax break ("we'll take less of your money") become synonymous with a subsidy ("we'll give you someone else's money")?
Answer: I cannot answer the "when" part but can address the "why" part.

People think of a subsidy as a deviation from the *status quo,* not from a baseline of zero. So if government has decided to tax everyone at 10% and this becomes the norm, and *then* government decides to cut a certain party's taxes, it can be thought of as mathematically equivalent to taxing that party at 10% and also giving them a payment.

Since this is ELI5 I will make no attempt to turn this into a discussion of right and wrong, etc., but that's why the term is seen by some people as valid in this usage.

Question: Why do I often wake up a few seconds or minutes before my alarm goes off?
Answer: Your'e body recognizes patterns and acts accordingly.  If you ever want to try to maximize your sleep schedule, try going to bed and waking up at the same time 7 days a week.  I started around new years and haven't used an alarm since March.  Humans are awesome.

Question: What happens to truck drivers when they're transporting consumable goods and they wreck destroying all of the content transported?
Answer: They have special insurance to cover the value of any goods being transported.

Meaning if there is a truck hauling a tank of cement dust, and it breaks open and it loses it all, their insurance covers it, but then they pay higher premiums, like auto insurance.

Question: The four-color-map problem and how it was proven mathematically that a flat map on a plane will never need more than four colors
Answer: >  [The use of a program to prove the 4-color theorem will not change mathematics - it merely demonstrates that the theorem, a challenge for a century, is probably not important to mathematics.](_URL_0_)

Question: Whats going on with the euro??
Answer: The Euro is a shared currency. Basically, a bunch of countries all use the Euro as their currency. This means that when these countries borrow money, they borrow Euros, and repay it in Euros. Now, a bit about the value of money - it's all based on how much there is in the market, and how much people want that money. The more Euros are out there, the less each one is worth, and the fewer people want Euros, the less each Euro is worth.

So, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Spain and Ireland have all borrowed heavily (in Euros). Way too heavily, by all appearances, and it looks like they'll be unable to save themselves from bankruptcy. Now, when this happens normally, the country just prints a ton of its currency, and pays the loans with that. Your currency value drops because there are so many of them out there now, but you survive without having to refuse to pay anyone back. That means you are marginally better to borrow from than if you had just let the loans default, so you can maybe get credit again if you institute the right policies.

The thing is, Greece et al. don't control how many Euros there are in the market. The European Central Bank does, and they don't want to make new Euros, for a bunch of reasons outside the scope of this question. So if Greece is going to pay its loans, it has to look to actual taxed Euros, not Euros it can create out of thin air. 

This leaves Greece with a few options, when it can't pay: first, it could just not pay, in which case, they're totally screwed, financially. Banks stop lending to them, nobody wants to do business with the government, and other European nations' banks (who lent Greece all that money to begin with) get totaled by the losses. Second, they could get the money from someone else - this is the idea with getting France and Germany to give them a bailout. They pay their debts, but accept restrictions on spending in return, sorta like how you might have to turn over your spending to your mom if she just paid off all your credit cards. Third, they could leave the Euro, return to the drachma (their pre-Euro currency) and pay all their debts back in drachma, which will be basically worthless. This isn't much better than the first option, *but* it allows them the print-money option if they ever find themselves unable to repay loans they get later.

If Greece leaves the Euro, it means a bunch of things: first, all those people who were lending to Spain, Portugal, Ireland, and Italy are suddenly terrified that *they* are going to make their own (worthless) currency to pay their debts, so they stop buying. Spain and Co. grind to a halt when they can no longer pay their debts. Meanwhile, the value of the Euro drops precipitously, because nobody wants to get Euros to loan to Spain and Co., and there's suddenly a whole country's worth of Euro-spenders gone from the market (Greece). This is bad for Germany and France and the other, more stable Euro partners, because they rely on a strong currency for buying power.

Question: As a heavy alcoholic why my hands shake when I'm sober but don't shake when I drink.
Answer: Alcohol works by altering the level of neurotransmitters, or making them work better or worse in your system.  There are two kinds of neurotransmitters, inhibitory and excitatory.  The inhibitiory kind are enhanced by the alcohol, and the excitatory are diminished.

These alterations cause the nerves that are firing off your muscles to also calm down.  This is why the shaking goes away, as well as the other calming effects that alcohol produces.

Question: What is DNS cache poisoning?
Answer: So imagine you've got a massive phone book with everyone's names and phone numbers in. 

If you think you might need a particular persons number often (say, your friend 'Bob'), you might write a copy of Bobs number down on a sticky note instead of going and taking the time to find their number in the phone book each time. It saves you time and effort. This is your 'cache'.

Now imagine that your evil house mate comes along and replaces that sticky note with a different one with the same name but a different phone number. Next time you go to call Bob, you don't bother with the book and just look at the sticky note that you thought you had. Only its been tampered with, and thus you end up calling someone else. And that person you call pretends to be Bob.

Now without realising it you could be telling someone else something you only originally intended to tell Bob.

Question: how come some random people start singing the same song suddenly which iam humming inside my brain
Answer: The song you have in your head may be a song you heard on an advert on the television - and many people watch TV, so they might have seen the same advert as you.  
It's the same radio and even some television shows. If there's a song on any of them that's catchy; it will have more than likely gotten stuck in some people's heads.

Advertising companies use catchy songs to get you to remember the advert. So even if you thought that the advert had no affect on you, or you heard it in passing, you may find yourself humming the song.

Question: What's the Easter bunny got to do with Easter, they don't even lay eggs?
Answer: There isn't a known direct link there are ideas behind both and some theories why exactly they were linked.

The bunny was originally a hare. Early medieval people believed that hares were hermaphrodites and that they reproduced without having sex. Naturally the church jumped on this and loved the idea of hares since it was similar to the Virgin Mary.   

Eggs come into it from fasting during Lent particularly in the Orthodox church and middle East traditions. While fasting to keep the eggs edible when they break the fast they would hard boil them. Painting them also became customary, normally red to symbolise the blood Jesus spilt but other colours would also be used.

As what they've both done to link up with each other then that's a bit up for debate. One theory is that the pagan goddess Ēostre (note the name) was what married the two ideas together. Early Christians wanted to spread their religion and wanted to find common ground with some of the larger Pagan traditions that were alive in Europe. The idea being it's easier to convert people by saying "Oh cool you guys worship X? That's funny the truth is Y but I guess overtime passing things down without writing you've changed Y into X. Let us tell you why Christianity and our Y is correct and why you should follow our practices, they're not totally against what you've said they're the same but we've kept records, just look at this awesome big latin book we have...". Ēostre who also had a feast AND had hares as one of her symbols was the ideal candidate to compare Jesus/resurrection to. Eggs also weren't too far out to link with Ēostre since both eggs and hares are symbols of fertility which she was a goddess of.

Let that idea evolve over a few centuries, people forget about Ēostre and just think of Easter as a time for rabbits and eggs and the initial meaning is forgotten but the core Christian ideas still remain.

Question: How does the martian surface have pebbles?
Answer: Weathering still takes place on Mars, it just does so much more slowly than it does on Earth. That said, water is believed to have been active fairly recently (in geological terms) in Gale Crater (Curiosity's site), and those pebbles may very well be water-deposited (some are believed to have been, though I don't know if these particular pebbles were).

Question: Why do most of African countries are still dirt poor despite having massive natural resources.?
Answer: * Corruption 
* Neo colonialism (especially on the "strategic ressources")
* Instability
* Countries region vs ethnic region
* Not so much arable land (dryness, concentration in some places) and generally global harsh conditions.


You could  check this [out.](_URL_0_)

Question: Those websites that don't let you navigate away from, close, or go to a different page.
Answer: Web browsers have a few features that allow webmasters to program things to happen when someone tries to leave.  They are *intended* to be used for *good*; for example, you have an online word processor, and if you leave before saving your work, it can warn you that it will be lost.

But they can also be used for *evil*.  It massively pisses off users, so no reputable site would do it, but many sketchy sites have no reputation to lose, so they use it for one last chance to try to sell you something.

You may have to click "no" a few times, but the people that make web browsers are aware of this tactic, and after a few they give you an option to ignore any further attempts by the site to keep you there.

Question: Can someone explain this effect where a camera picks up the "reflection" of the eclipse, but not the eclipse itself? (Video and images inside)
Answer: It's lens flare.

Lens flare happens when you point a camera at a very bright light source, usually the sun. Some of the light from that source bounces around the lens, creating multiple images of the source along with rings, starbursts and other effects. A movie camera has a very complicated lens made up of many parts, so it can create pretty spectacular lens flare -- traditionally, directors and camera operators did everything they could to minimize lens flare, but these days it's often created deliberately to add atmosphere.

Your phone has a very simple lens, so you're only getting the one reflection. (There may be a couple of others that are just too faint to see.)

The light source itself -- the sun -- is still far too bright for the sensor, so it's overexposed and smudged out so you can't see the eclipse at all. But the reflection is much, much fainter so you can see the shape very clearly indeed.

Question: Why do fans cool us down if they're just moving the hot air around?
Answer: you make air hotter and wetter. Yes you, you stinky human. You're sweating. you're producing heat. These things move from you to the air. But they move slower, the closer you are to the heat and moisture of the air. 

Heat and moisture transmit more readily to the air the greater the difference.

So the advantage of the fan, is it takes the hot wet air you've gone and contributed to, and moves it away. Instead you're left with new, cooler, dryer air. And so your body can move heat and wetness to it faster. Thus cooling you.

Question: Why does my brain prefer songs that rhyme to ones that don't?
Answer: It's probably a lot more to do with how you identify rhythm in song. You like the once that rhyme because that adds to the rhythm of the song, and is easier for you to identify. The language center in your brain might be slightly larger than the music one

Question: Why are eating disorders only classified as psychological?
Answer: An eating disorder--one of anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, binge-eating disorder--is a psychiatric diagnosis. Food in an eating disorder is only the tip of the iceberg. It really centres on thoughts and feelings about control, self-worth, comfort, etc. The eating part is the *result* of the psychological part.

Question: Why are dried spaghetti strands the length they are?
Answer: I always snap mine in half and so does eveybody i know. Why not make a half size version if many are doing this. Unless it really is just us

Question: How come China population is so huge if Mao's Great Leap Forward killed 45 Million just less than 60 years ago?
Answer: China's population had been in the hundreds of millions for [centuries](_URL_1_) before that.  A lot of people died under Mao, but eventually they got things like food production under control, the [birth rate](_URL_0_) spiked and people didn't die of famine, so you had huge population increases.  

In the end, their population roughly doubled over the second half of the 20th century, which isn't actually so far removed from the US, which saw it's own population grow by about 85% over the same period of time.

Question: How come playing a game in split screen doesn't destroy performance?
Answer: Yes,  and a lot of games that used to offer split screen don't anymore such as call of duty and Halo.   

When splitting screens each display only is half the resolution as usual,  which is easier to render.  Also,  many games actually cap the framerate when playing split screen resulting in a much less smooth game.   Mario kart and Halo did this.

Question: When you eat animal fat, how does your body turn it into human fat?
Answer: It's not initially human fat.  Everything we eat is broken down by enzymes into smaller bits.  Proteins become amino acids, and fats become glycerol and fatty acids (sugars just become another kind of sugar).

Any of those can be used by cells to make energy.  The thing about fatty acids is that if they're not used by our cells to make ATP at the time we eat and digest, they can simply become fat in our body when they are moved to our existing fat cells.

Question: Image Files
Answer: The main difference is the compression method: lossless or lossy.

lossless: you don't lose information. PNG and GIF are lossless. These are usually used to save text, icons and geometric drawings. (Why has already been discussed [here](_URL_0_)).
GIF supports only 256 colors (out of 16.8 millions).

lossy: you lose information. But that's ok, because you won't notice. For example, if you have two very similar color in two very near regions, a lossy compression method will compress the two colors into one. The common lossy format is JPG = JPEG. A lossy compression method is most suited for images (over the internet, photographers and designers won't agree).

TIFF and JPEG2000 can be both lossy and lossless.

There are other things to say about the various compression method but requires a bit of mathematics. Feel free to ask, though.

Question: Why are John and Jane Doe used as names for unknown people?
Answer: Origin[edit]
The name "John Doe", often spelled "Doo," along with "Richard Roe" or "Roo" were regularly invoked in English legal instruments to satisfy technical requirements governing standing and jurisdiction, beginning perhaps as early as the reign of England's King Edward III (1312–1377).[8]

Other fictitious names for a person involved in litigation under English law were John-a-Noakes, or John Noakes/Nokes and John-a-Stiles/John Stiles.[9]

The Oxford English Dictionary states that John Doe is "the name given to the fictitious lessee of the plaintiff, in the (now obsolete in the UK) mixed action of ejectment, the fictitious defendant being called Richard Roe".

This particular use became obsolete in the UK in 1852:

As is well known, the device of involving real people as notional lessees and ejectors was used to enable freeholders to sue the real ejectors. These were then replaced by the fictional characters John Doe and Richard Roe. Eventually the medieval remedies were (mostly) abolished by the Real Property Limitation Act of 1833; the fictional characters of John Doe and Richard Roe by the Common Law Procedure Act 1852; and the forms of action themselves by the Judicature Acts 1873-75."
Secretary of State for Environment, Food, and Rural Affairs (Respondent) v Meier and another(FC) (Appellant) and others and another (FC)(Appellant) and another (2009).[10]

The term 'John Doe Injunction' (or John Doe Order)[11] is used in the UK to describe an injunction sought against someone whose identity is not known at the time it is issued:

"8.02 If an unknown person has possession of the confidential personal information and is threatening to disclose it, a 'John Doe' injunction may be sought against that person. The first time this form of injunction was used since 1852 in the United Kingdom was in 2005 when lawyers acting for JK Rowling and her publishers obtained an interim order against an unidentified person who had offered to sell chapters of a stolen copy of an unpublished Harry Potter novel to the media".[12]

Unlike in the United States the name (John) Doe does not actually appear in the formal name of the case, for example: X  &  Y v Persons Unknown [2007] HRLR 4.[13]

Question: Trapwire
Answer: supposedly it can recognize faces and people from all kinds of camera feeds. once identified they can track people through the country, this is then linked to a database so it knows where people are in space/time. 

if it's really as centrally connected as they say intel can be cross-referenced with for example your credit card transactions, GSM cell data, social network profiles and everything else they can access. the profile they can build of people would be more exhaustive then the one Google or Facebook has on you. 

**tl;dr** preparation for a 1984-style Big Brother

Question: Why would people prefer life in prison without the possibility of parole, over the death penalty?
Answer: Everyone says, they would prefer dying over doing something. However, most people change their minds once death is an option

Question: Pizza question
Answer: No it is not more pizza per dollar. The combined area of pizza for the 2 9-inch pizzas is 40.5pi inches squared (A=r*r*pi, 4.5*4.5*pi*2) and you would pay $13.50, where as the 13-inch you would be getting an area of 42.25pi inches squared for $12.50

Question: When a orchestra conductor is waving around his stick while the orchestra is playing, why does he do that and Is there a method as to how he does it.
Answer: There is a precise reason. It's to keep time for the musicians as well as give cues to perform certain actions. While it is possible to have everybody keep time on their own, having a conductor to maintain pace, give cues, etc is helpful. At least it's how I see it when I would conduct.

Question: Why don't police officers use rubber bullets?
Answer: Rubber bullets hurt, but they don't stop people who don't want to be stopped.

Lead bullets do.

Question: the point of changing your network's password if it can be hacked anyway.
Answer: What's the point of locking your door at night if someone can break it down or enter through the window anyways?

Why not leave your keys in the car if someone can break in and hotwire it anyways?

It's a deterrent. There's no point in a hacker to spend hours and hours trying to get into your home network when there's such little potential payoff if they were to break the encryption. So they're not going to bother.

If it's wide open and it's zero effort, or you're using default passwords which takes them 10 seconds to look up? Then you're making it a lot more appealing.

Question: What do the two guys in the middle of the bobsled do?
Answer: They contribute to the initial acceleration of the bobsled, and help steer by leaning.

Question: Are the chewing sounds you hear while you're chewing magnified or what you actually sound like chewing?
Answer: Not really amplified, but directly routed into your ears by your jawbone. While in contrast to third parties they get dampened by the meat around your mouth (i.e. cheeks and lips) ... so keep your pie hole shut while chewing.

EDIT: also obviously the volume gets greatly reduced simply by distance, considering sounds drop of with a square function with distance.

Question: Why are Japanese periods ( 。) different than English periods (.) --
Answer: People are correct as to it being from Chinese. However, no one has really mentioned why. Chinese and Japanese were both originally written with brushes, not pens or quills. Thus, a circle was a more effective method of writing a full stop, since a period as we know of it could simply be an ink drop in the wrong place, which could render a sentence utterly unreadable if you weren't careful.

Question: Do the eyes have a shutter speed?
Answer: Imagine a spinning wheel getting faster and faster. At some point, it looks like it's suddenly reversed direction, spinning backwards, right? And then as it keeps on accelerating, it looks like the wheel is stopped. (Of course, the wheel is blurry, since it's going fast -- your brain interprets this as a spinning wheel.) 

This also works for fan blades, propellers, etcetc. You get the point. This is a similar idea to how a camera can match the shutter speed of a helicopter blade, making it seem like the helicopter is rising into the air without even spinning its rotors. 

Eyes don't have something like a shutter speed (hypothetically you could blink... a LOT....). The reason for this behavior is still unknown, but one theory is that we see the world as a bunch of discrete images put together (this is similar to a shutter speed, potentially), and another is something known as the "Temporal Aliasing Theory" (now, an ELI5 for this would be pretty interesting too).

Question: Why is being anti-immigration considered racism
Answer: Being anti-immigration, in and of itself, is not racist. 

However... there tends to be overlap. You don't hear a lot of people saying "We should limit immigration because our infrastructure can't handle it," for example... but you get a lot of "Those People are coming over to take our jobs" and "Those People are all criminals" and "Those People will ruin AMERICA!" and it is statements like those that cross the line into racism.

In general, it seems to be racism that's pushing anti-immigration, not the other way around.

Question: What is "Cultural Marxism"?
Answer: Understanding any Marxist idea through its definition is tricky.  What it means in practice is that any social concept or policy is focused on issues emulating two of the core concepts of original Marxist thought i.e. (1)*class struggle* and  (2)*exploitation*.  Also very importantly in Marxist thought the solution to the problems is always state control and regulation aiming at re-shaping the society rather than simply fighting the symptoms. This is why Marxism fits so well with (among others):

* feminists - (1)men vs women, (2)discrimination 
* green movements - (1)capitalism vs nature, (2)exploitation of resources , 
* race and minority activists - (1)majority vs minority, (2) discrimination. 

Now look at what sort of goals those groups have - promoting political correctness, forcibly changing people's preferences etc, changing how people view things - rather than just focusing on protecting those violated rights of minorities, women etc. That is in essence the translation of Marxian ideas onto cultural grounds. The claim that cultural marxists want to introduce socialism through back door as someone else stated here is incorrect. Socialism is just the *expression of Marxist ideas in an economic dimension*. Marxism went far beyond that - it was a comprehensive view of how society should behave. There was Marxist art, Marxist science, Marxist language... a whole new Marxist reality.

If you don't want to dig into sources take it from someone who grew up with Marx and Lenin on a huge poster in a classroom.  Also if I can have a personal recommendation: *avoid cultural (or any other kind ) Marxism like the plague*. It's a deeply flawed ~~philosophy~~ quasi-religious movement that will produce (and already is producing) the same disastrous results in culture and society as it did in economy. It's a very bad way of both understanding and solving very real issues.

EDIT: formatting

Question: I understand "heat" but what creates "coldness"? What makes up the cold waves that I feel when I put my hand near an ice block?
Answer: The temperature of the ice block affects the air around it.

It cools the air immediately around it, which makes it more dense, and thus heavier, and it falls to ground. When it does this, it displaces other air.

Meanwhile, more hot air has taken the place of the cold air, which becomes cold and falls.

This creates a very small current of air around the ice block in very small waves.

Question: How is a dead body disfigured after being submerged in water for a long period of time?
Answer: Typically, bacteria in the water rots in the body and emits gases. The gases usually bloat the body quite large, making it disfigured and smelly.

Question: How can you "feel" someone behind or near you?
Answer: There's no special ability to detect people outside of your line of sight other than your normal senses. These may not always be immediately apparent to you, for instance you might hear a disturbance and turn to look and see a human. 

It's also reasonable there's a degree of confirmation bias at work. If you think something is near you, look, and nothing is there, you forget about it. If you look and there's an unexpected person, then it sticks out in your memory. If you don't notice a person, and don't look, then there's nothing to remember in the first place. Thus when you review your memory, you see a string of unfailing human detection that doesn't really match the reality.

Question: Were there more serial killers in the 20th century or did the media just pay more attention to them?
Answer: Short answer is Yes.

Longer answer is, not, really:

We're only 15 Years into the 21th Century, so, yes of course there were more Serial Killers in the entire 20th Centuryas opposed to the (Beginning of the) 21th. But that doesn't mean that there will be less serial killers coming in the next 85 Years.

Question: How did people get their hands on the terrain we live on?
Answer: Land used to be a free resource, just like air or sun light. When the first humans started traveling and settling around the world, they would pick grounds usually near rivers and settled there. Those grounds wouldn't belong to anybody as they would be the first ones there. After they've settled in and changed the landscape to their needs, they would need to protect them from others that wanted it. Once they've started to protect them you can say it belonged to them.

At some point communities started to unite with each other and gather more ground to increase their strength in front of others that wanted the land. Started with tribes and ended up with the European Union (more countries united for more economical strength). Long story short, all the land was taken by somebody (except Antarctica).

Across the history, getting new land meant taking it from someone else. That meant that the one with more soldiers or/and better guns would kill the other and take his land ( Ex: Early American history together with any colonisation or empire expansion ).

Because people always want MORE or what others have, a free resource became a private one. If air could be occupied in the same manner we would be in big big trouble.

Question: How come smoking weed for me intensifies my pain rather than masks it like it does for other people?
Answer: First off : you might simply be using the wrong strain. Different strains have (somewhat) different effects. It doesn't seem to be terribly clear cut - the genetics of sativa and indica strains have huge levels of crossovers, and are rarely exactly what they're claimed to be. But as a general rule look for an Indica (higher CBD) as opposed to a Sativa (higher THC).

The other possible reason, is that you naturally don't get as much benefit from it as other people. For some people weed helps mask pain, especially if it distracts them. On the other hand, if weed tends to make you slightly more alert, and slightly more aware of what's hurting, it may make the pain more noticeable, albeit not "intensified". It's like the opposite of using distraction for pain relief.

Question: Are there any disorders that involve an altered perception of the rate of time?
Answer: [This might interest you.](_URL_0_)

I know at the least some disorders cause you to "lose" time in the sense that you blacked out and can't remember what you did.

I'm just adding useless text to my comment here because for some reason this sub thinks you cannot give a concise and meaningful answer. Must have long winded mods or something. I also think this might be better suited to /r/askscience.

Question: Why do some people like a certain taste/smell while others don't like it (or even hate it)?
Answer: That's a product of education, upbringing, customs, flavors and food you are familiar with... Also perseverance. Have you hear that "tonic water is an acquired taste"? You have to keep drinking it until you taste other things that the initial bitterness and end up liking it.

And there are certain tastes that can only be noticed by the bearers of a certain gene. _URL_0_

Question: Body Parts falling asleep; lack of oxygen or blood pressure too high?
Answer: > lack of oxygen or blood pressure too high?

Neither.

It's caused by compression of nerves to/from the affected limb, effectively cutting off communication between the limb and the brain.  The "pins and needles" feeling is caused by the sensory neurons restoring their electrochemical gradients once the pressure is removed.

Question: I just had a full length dream about an insignificant person from school I talked to maybe once. Why is this? It's been 12 years
Answer: I'm not an expert in Psychology, but this can be answered with basic fundamentals. We believe dreams are your brains way of catagorizing and storing memories. This could be anything throughout your life. Think of your dreams as a collage of memories. Take someone you met 20 years ago, add that to a volcano documentary you watched last Christmas, finally sprinkle the Avengers saving New York. Your dream is now playing the floor is lava with that childhood friend while the Avengers are insulting your jumping skills. Just your brain going through these memories and throwing them in your subconscious. Our brains process hundreds or some believe thousands of memories (dreams) everytime we sleep. What you remember dreaming when you wake up can be entirely random.

Question: Why does the combination of cigarettes and coffee seem to be a natural laxative?
Answer: Coffee (caffeine, specifically) *is* both a laxative and a diuretic, it doesn't just 'seem to be'.

Question: Why do we drop so much ordinance on targets? I know this sounds inhuman, but the ROI seems absurd after looking through combat footage. Shouldn't targets be eliminated in a more cost effective manner?
Answer: Its cheaper to shoot twice and make sure they're gone than to shoot once and find out a week later that you have to send somebody else to go shoot them again.

Bombs and missiles are expensive, but they're not the only cost to be factored into such decisions. Launching another sortie because the first one was insufficient means using more ordinance, but more importantly it means putting soldiers back into a hostile situation. Every time you send people out, there's a risk that some won't come back, so you want to minimize the number of sorties without compromising your objectives. If that means dropping more bombs, then you drop more bombs. Bombs can be replaced faster than the pilots who drop them.

Question: Why is it so hard to find a free toilet in most European cities?
Answer: I would guess probably to keep homeless people from sleeping inside or druggies from shooting up in the bathroom or trashing it. I'm not super knowledgable about this but to me it seems like they charge a small amount of money to ensure proper care for the facility because who would pay money to trash a bathroom.

Question: the emotion 'annoyed'
Answer: It is a subtler form of anger, which is founded out of the desire for reality to be different from what it is (probably more complicated but thats the vernacular Ive heard).

Question: how does remembering a dream work? How does that fit with long term and short term memories?
Answer: There is a part of your brain that tests reality.  You are walking down the street and see a man with three arms, and that part says, "whoa, that can't be right, let's take a closer look and figure that out."  You do, it turns out to be two people standing at a funny angle, and all is well.

When you dream, that part of your brain operates at a reduced capacity, and doesn't question the implausible as much.  You are an adult but still in elementary school, you are in a rocket to space, you are pitching for the Yankees, your brain just accepts it without asking too many questions.

This leads to dreams that seem to make sense when you are in them, but fall apart when your logical mind awakes.  It might make perfect sense in your dream that you had to pitch for the Yankees because you lost your shoes on the bus, but when you wake up and try to put that into a logical framework within your memory, it all falls apart.

Also, when we dream, we often dream in impressions rather an actually sights and sounds.  If you have every dreamed you were driving a car, what kind of car was it?  Was it a stick or automatic?  Two doors or four doors?  What was playing on the radio?  Chances are these details were left undefined, and the only parts of the car you were aware of were the steering wheel and pedals.  The rest remained this abstract concept of a car, that left you impression the details were there, when they were not.  Since it is those very details that help up build memories, their absence makes remembering dreams more difficult.

Question: What is the speed of electricity?
Answer: The speed of a signal(charge) through the wire is extremely fast - between 60% and 99% of the speed of light, depending on the material the wire is made out of and its construction.

The physical speed of the electrons themselves is very slow - in range of milimaters per hour for DC. For AC, the electrons don't move at all - they just "jiggle" both ways constantly.

Question: In finance, what does it mean when an investment group "bets" on an outcome?
Answer: A source would help, but I think I can be fairly certain that "bet" in this sense was just a euphemism.

That's all investing is, really. When you invest in something, you're taking a calculated risk that it will pay off. Nothing is certain. It isn't exactly gambling in the sense that the payouts are not up to random chance (although it is almost totally unpredictable, in the sense that you can never be *completely* sure of a particular outcome).

Goldman Sachs probably made some investment or acquisition in Greece that will heavily depend on the outcome of the bailout (again, context would help here; I'm just guessing) because they strongly believe it will go one way or the other.

Question: How come when I sing along with a song I sound awesome but when you take away the vocal track I sound ridiculously horrible?
Answer: I think your ears are blending the two voices. It also might be that you feel more confident in singing it with the vocals. Two things I do to tell how well I'm really doing: first, gradually decrease the volume of the song, but keep your singing voice the same. Second, take a finger and plug one ear while singing. It helps drown out the outside sound, but still hear your own vocal vibrations.  
I have the same problem too, if you can't tell. XP

Question: Bridge, Pinocle, Hearts, and other "bidding" type card games
Answer: I've maybe played bridge or pinocle a couple times.  I played Hearts and Spades quite a bit in college, however.  The strategies of the two games are fundamentally opposite.  In Hearts you want to lose "tricks" and in Spades you want to win "tricks".  

A trick is where everyone throws one card from their hand and the highest card wins.  Kind of like when you played "War" as a kid, queen beats a jack, 10 beats an 8, etc.  

In Spades, spades are "trumps".  A trump means that suit will beat any other card regardless of value.  e.g. Four players: P1 throws 10 of clubs, P2 throws Jack of clubs, P3 throws 6 of hearts, P4 throws 4 of spades.  The spade wins.  If he'd thrown the 4 of clubs, P2 would have won the trick, he had the highest card in the suit that was led (clubs).  P3 threw a heart, not the led suit, but not a spade which is trump, so he was just ditching a low card because he didn't have any clubs.  

Play continues around the table until everyone is out of cards.  Then partners count their tricks to see who took the most.  

**OK, down to bidding.**  All the cards are dealt, each player receiving 12 cards, (note 4 cards are left and are placed in the middle as the "Kitty").  Players look at the cards they have and decide how many tricks they think they can win, based on how many high cards/trumps (spades) they have.  The highest bidder wins the kitty and gets to exchange any of his cards for ones in the kitty.

So, it's an advantage to winning the bid, you get 4 more cards to select from, and ditch the lowest 4 cards in your hand.  It usually makes the winning bidder the strongest player for that hand.

*edit - "So why not just keep bidding and always win the bid?"  If you bid too high and don't get all the tricks you bid, you get "set" which means you lose points.  So it's a delicate balance, you want the kitty, but you don't want to lose points by being overconfident.

Feel free to ask questions.

Question: what does a military or terrorist organisation gain by shooting down a civilian plane and then denying it?
Answer: Because they didn't intend to shoot down a civilian airliner. They thought they were shooting down a Ukrainian military transport aircraft.

No one has anything to gain from shooting down a bunch of civilians. That's why they are attempting to deny it.

Question: Whats the point in war?
Answer: You have something I want. I shoot you and take it. That's robbery.

You and your 99 friends have something me and my 99 friends want. We shoot you and take it. That's war.

Question: why is a lieutenant general Senior to a major general? It seems backwards because a major his senior to a lieutenant.
Answer: The rank of Major General is a shortened title. Historically it was Sergeant-Major General. Somewhere along the way in the 18th century, the sergeant part of the name was dropped. It could easily have been the major part that was dropped and that would have made more sense.

Sergeant-Major means "sergeant-leader" or "greater sergeant" and is an enlisted rank, greater than a sergeant but junior to a Lieutenant. 

As the Major-General rank is named after the enlisted rank of Sergeant-Major and not the commissioned rank of Major, it is the most junior of General ranks. 

So next time, think "Sergeant General" instead and it will make more sense.

Edit: a word as I can't grammar today

Question: Why do people in war movies always not seem to notice their excessive sweating
Answer: Well I'd imagine there are greater worries than how much you are sweating such as surviving. And since many of these movies take place in hot climates they just got used to sweating heavily all the time.

Question: In US TV and film why do people always seems to chew tablets
Answer: It's cinema short hand for someone being a bad ass, or an addict depending on the situation.  An addict may chew time release pills in order to get all of the high at once, and a bad ass might chew pills because they're too cool to suffer visibly but they're in severe pain and want the medicine to kick in now.  Addicts chew pills a lot in real life, I've rarely if ever actually seen someone do it in person.  I did it once with aspirin or something when I was younger after reading too many pulpy comic books, and all I got for the experience was a bitter, chalky powder in my mouth and a headache that went away in the same amount of time.

Question: Why do different car engines need a different oil viscosity?
Answer: Because oil need to penetrate very small niches inside engine. But size of these niches varies between different engines. Viscosity needs to be low enough to penetrate niche (not to stop at the edge) but high enough to stay inside and lubricate instead of just going through without much effect.

Question: How does a paint roller hold so much paint?
Answer: It's literally a sponge, but for paint. The paint roller is full of tons of little holes (most you can't see) that the paint goes into. This is why most sponges (and paint rollers) are very squishy, they're mostly air.

Question: Why Does Plucking My Eyebrows Make Me Sneeze?
Answer: Plucking my eyebrows doesn't make me sneeze, but pulling out nose hairs does. I'm purely speculating, but I would imagine your body thinks there is a foreign object causing pain, and so your reflex is to get it out. A sneeze can be measured at 100mph/160kmh. So, a sneeze is pretty effective at removing what the body recognizes as a foreign object.

Question: The current fracturing of the Republican Party.
Answer: The GOP currently has two main factions: the Tea Party and the Establishment. The Tea Party is a minority, but also represents a fairly large and well-funded faction. And they are large enough that the establishment Republicans can't simply ignore them.

There's also a lot of Establishment Republicans who are sympathetic to the Tea Party (or, more likely, their constituents are), and there are a lot of Tea Party members whose constituents are starting to get weary of the more extreme positions. So it's not all black and white.

Chances are, this is all bluster for their own constituents, and some compromise candidate who is generally moderate but has a few positions important to the Tea Party will win. Which is how it's supposed to work.

For the record, this is hardly unusual. The Democrats had their own fracturing in the late-80s early 90s; a *lot* of Democrats weren't happy with Bill Clinton because he was too *moderate* (he was pro-death penalty, tough on crime, and wasn't averse to welfare reform, all things that at the time were anathema to "establishment" Democrats). In fact, both parties tend to have their own fracturing every 20 years or so.

Question: When getting a tattoo, how come the ink from the stencil or pen doesn't contaminate the skin?
Answer: I have 6 tattoos from 4 different artists and have never seen anyone freehand with a sharpie on a person and tattoo on that.

Question: Why does it seem like I have to change my deodorant brand every year or so to avoid body odor?
Answer: The smell that emanates from your armpits is largely caused by the bacteria that makes its home there.  Deodorants, in addition to smelling pleasant, discourage bacterial growth.

Over time bacteria may grow resistant to some extent if you always use the same type of deodorant.  Occasionally switching can help combat that problem.

Question: What is the technology and strategies involved in developing and marketing a triple A game?
Answer: Hop over to r/gamedev for a better answer. Almost everything can be found in their guides.

On the development side, there are 3 types of developers, Artists, Programmers and Designers. There are more roles(writers, Audio Engineers, etc) but lets focus on the main ones.

Strategy wise: Artists develop what you see, from concept art to 3D models. Programmers develop what you don't see, from a simple score mechanic to A.I. Designers are basically the designers of the game, they come up with mechanics, level designs, etc. And they all get given a schedule and on what to do and needs to get done by the higher ups. Within that, ideally they work coherently and unproblematic. However that is mostly not going to happen.



Technology wise; It depends on the game, for 3D models, software like, Maya or 3dsMax or ZBrush are industry standard. As well as Photoshop and illustrator for 2D images. Game engines will vary depending on the studio, big companies tend to use their own in house game engine, for example, UDK for Epic games. Then there's programming language, again industry standard is C++ or C#. But there are many more to choose from.

The basic fact of the matter there are a lot of different technologies, different strategies and different studios, that there are too many to write on about in one sitting. Even great titles can be developed with cheap tools. However the basic rule is more money, the more people you can hire, the more can get done and the more overall development time can be done on the game. Also most of the time, big studios tend to keep their industry secrets to themselves.

Marketing wise, I don't know much, but the idea is to get your game advertised on different social media, twitter, Facebook, YouTube, conventions etc.

Question: How did we come to the conclusion about the number of days in the calendar? Why are some 30 and some 31? Why did they choose February as 29 or 28?
Answer: It's an endless rabbit hole of a question, but the basic root is that the rate of rotation of the earth has nothing to do with the time it takes to go around the sun. So a year is not a nice round number of days (it is 365.2425 days long) and can't be neatly divided into a calendar. Some system is needed to correct for the inevitable drift between calendar time and seasonal time.

The calendar we use today comes from the Roman Empire. Before Julius Caesar the Romans used to have 12 months a year, with either 29 or 31 days each, to give a 355-day year. Every once in a while they would add an extra month to the year, called a intercalary month, to make up for lost days. This month would be added after February. Why here? Probably because it's the end of winter.

However, the Romans fought a lot of wars and would sometimes forget to add the extra month because they were too busy fighting, so the Roman calendar got out of sync with the seasons. Julius Caesar introduced the Julian calendar, which got rid of the intercalary month, made each month 30 or 31 days long, made February 28 days, and added the leap year rule. It's still quite arbitrary, but it's better than the system that came before.

Later, in the 16th century, a further refinement was made to the calculation of leap years to correct for a tiny (0.002%) remaining drift, to give us the Gregorian calendar. These days we use the Gregorian calendar, with occasional leap seconds added to correct for any remaining drift.

Sources:
_URL_1_
_URL_0_

Question: What are differences between RAR vs. RAR5?
Answer: Basically an added better encryption method and better compression but only for very large files

Question: Why can't I just eat gummy vitamins, protein supplements, iron supplements, etc. and survive?
Answer: Apart from the supplements lacking many vital components that are found in actual food, the rate at which you absorb the vitamins and the rate at which the actual solids pass through your body do not allow for adequate intake of the nutrients. Eating just supplements and not any solid food will just give you very nutrient rich urine and poop.

Question: How do boats like this stay afloat?
Answer: Pretty sure the have hydrofoils on the fins, wich work like an airplane wing only with water. Essentially creating lift and allowing them to glide above the waves. It probably helps that the entire boat is made of carbon fiber and other lightweight materials.

Question: Why in the United States, with the exception of soccer, are there not sponsors or advertisements on professional sports team's uniforms?
Answer: Soccer is played without any breaks during either half. Because the clock never stops running, there is rarely an opportunity for television broadcasters to play commercials. Jersey sponsors are a way to earn revenue in spite of this constraint. 

American Football, baseball, and basketball by contrast have many breaks and/or instances when the clock is stopped. Therefore, broadcasters are able to schedule commercials throughout the games rather than just during half time. 

Since these sports are already commercialized to such a great extent, the teams could be seen as overreaching by also introducing jersey sponsors. Fans are accustomed to jerseys with team names and logos, and could be upset at those insignias being replaced by jersey sponsors.

Question: How come when I punch in my dreams, it feels like I am punching underwater?
Answer: As answered [here](_URL_0_), 

 >  It's because punching (like running) is a highly-coordinated activity that relies on proprioceptive feedback throughout the motion to work. Since the thalamus clamps down both on the transmission of the motor signals you'd need to effectively complete the motion and the perception of joint-motion data while you're asleep, everything feels bogged down and slow. 

 >  Compare that to 'flying', which is a), something we can't do normally, so we have no basis for comparison to see if it feels right or not, and b) superman-style flying about doesn't require significant body motion anyway.

Question: As an Australian, what do the words "middle class" v. "working class" mean in America?
Answer: Kind of. There are really thee kinds of middle class: lower middle, middle, and upper middle. Lower middle is probably what you would call "the working class." The middle class is a household with bachelor's degrees and what not (typically). They are the "American dream" families: the white-picket fence, 2 kids, steady jobs, etc. The upper middle class are the people pulling 6 figures or close to it. *They* are the ones that send their kids to private schools, and all the things you listed. Then there are the Upper class and the Super rich. I think those terms are the same in both countries.

Question: Why Japanese culture is really unique? (read : weird)
Answer: Alright, so first of all, most of the things you see as weird about Japanese culture don't really occur too often.

You can reply to this with specific things if you like, and I will try my best to explain it.  (Reference, I lived in Japan for a while).

Some things people say are weird about Japan is stuff like used panty vending machines, otaku culture, etc.  

1.  Used Panty machines are not common at all, at might have been made illegal.  The only one I ever saw was in Akihabara.  

2. Otaku Culture.  The main reason for this is because many young men, and some girls, view the whole dating game as not worth it when they can get satisfaction from their favorite anime/manga/etc. characters and the stuff they can buy.  There seems to be a disillusionment among guys of the younger generation that they do not want to spend all the money on girls and/or deal with rejection.  

These answers might not be completely correct, but they are based on my experiences from living there.  Any other specific things you find weird I can try to explain, if you like.

Question: Why are some instruments (presumably) harder to synthesize than others? Why do, say, MIDI pianos usually sound better than MIDI horns?
Answer: Pianos make noise one way- by hitting a string with a hammer. You can control how hard or soft you press the key, but you can't change anything besides that. Brass instruments derive their sound from the vibrations of your lips, which have far more minute detail and control which is extremely complicated for a computer to simulate.

Question: If bruising is the body's way of protecting itself, why do we try to reduce swelling when treating an injured person?
Answer: Bruising is not the body's way of protecting itself.  A bruise is the result of a trauma that ruptures capillaries/blood vessels.  The resulting swelling is blood "leaking" into the surrounding tissue.

The treatment for swelling is applying something cold to the bruised area.  The cold causes blood vessels to constrict which reduces blood flow to the area.  This allows the capillaries to heal more quickly.

Question: What is UKIP and why is their victory so controversial?
Answer: Basically they want withdrawal from the European Union, membership of which they say costs the UK £120bn per year.

Along with that they would remove EU fishing quotas, withdraw from the Common Agricultural Policy and enforce much tighter controls on immigration. 

Basically UKIP is seen as an isolationist and racist party, a magnet to all sorts of crazy and scary people, as well as leaning well to the right, being friends with all sorts of nasty parties in Europe.

Edit: Here is a Guardian article, [10 good reasons not to vote UKIP](_URL_0_).

Question: grand unified theory
Answer: With things such as General and Special Relatively we can get really good explanations of macroscopic things. How a rock moves when you throw it, clouds of dust in space, planets and stars, giant superclusters of galaxies, we can all predict how they'll act with a very high degree of accuracy.

With the Standard Model of particle physics, we can also accurately predict stuff at the quantum level. How electrons interact, what happens when a photon hits a proton, what Higgs Boson should look like and how to find it, etc.

Problem is, these two scales don't work together. The math we use to describe the big stuff doesn't describe the small stuff, and vice versa. But clearly the universe works and there's no reason to think the fundamental laws of physics work completely different in one part of the universe than they do in another, so clearly we have it wrong somewhere. We don't want to completely throw out one or the other of these theories, since they work so well for so many things, so most scientists are looking for ways to make changes here and there so they work together. This is called a Theory of Everything, a single set of models and equations that can accurately explain how all the physics works.

One of the ways to do this that is looking like it will work is to find a way for the four fundamental forces to all be aspects of a single force. Weak nuclear force (the force that holds atomic nuclei together), strong nuclear force (holds quarks together into protons, neutrons, and other particles), electromagnetism (light, electricity, magnetic fields, etc.), and gravity. We're pretty sure that at very small scales, with very high energy levels, these are all actually the same force, but we can't prove it yet and we don't know what the math would look like.

The Grand Unified Theory is a theory we don't actually have yet that would basically be the math of weak, strong and electromagnetism all being the same. It's seen as a very significant stepping stone towards an actual ToE, and we actually already have the math behind the weak force and electromagnetism being unified, so we have that going for us. 

Gravity isn't included in the GUT since it's proving to be way more difficult to get it to unite with the other three. Those three mostly work at close ranges and do kinda similar things, but then gravity is off doing it's own weird shit like causing things to tug on other things that are millions of light years away, or become so dense they start twisting spacetime into circles.

Question: What is the white foamy stuff when you put Hydrogen Peroxide on an infection and why does it become foamy?
Answer: There are enzymes in your blood that attack the peroxide and turn it into water and oxygen. The bubbles are what that looks like. 

As a sidenote, though, you should **not** put peroxide on wounds. It kills germs, but it kills everything else it touches, too, including healthy tissue. And since you have a cut you're letting the peroxide in pretty deep. It'll actually impede the healing. Same goes for alcohol, by the way. 

Warm water and soap are the best thing for a wound. After that, put some antibiotic lotion on it.

Question: Why wind speed on land is measured in mph while wind speed on the ocean is measured in kn(ots)
Answer: Using knots as a measurement makes sense on the ocean.  1 knot is 1 nautical mile per hour. 

1 nautical mile also represents one minute of longitude at the equator.  When sailing was easier to use knots to determine distance traveled when using a chart.  One degree of longitude  is 60 nautical miles at the equator.  The math gets a bit more complex away from the equator, but If I know my latitude, and know I have to travel 5 degrees east, I can calculate the distance required to go in knots much easier.  

Knots are not needed today with GPS and all the other technology, but due to tradition it is still used.

Also, the way to determine speed originally was to throw a piece of wood or something overboard with a rope attached to it.  You would have a knot tied at certain intervals, and you would count how many knots passed through your hand in 30 seconds.

Question: why isn't inflation in America based on bread/sugar (past) and why is it based on things like price of iPad (present)?
Answer: Well, it's based on all of those things. It's based on what the average consumer buys and then it's the percentage difference in price between each good. However each good has a weighting on how important they are, bread and sugar being more important than iPads. A rise in the price of bread and sugar leads to a greater increase in inflation percentages than the same rise in iPads. 



Atleast, that's what I learnt in school I believe  


Edit: also the goods that are measured change every year or so, items are removed if their popularity drops and are added if they become popular. 


This year they'll probably remove selfie sticks and add fidget spinners...

Question: Why would someone want to buy a manual car over an automatic car other than for then reason of it "being fun" or feeling "like a race car"?
Answer: A manual transmission *is* a ton of fun, there's no doubt about it. 

But a very real, core reason for owning one is that you can better control the vehicle's speed and power to suit the sort of driving you are trying to do, in a way that computers haven't yet been designed to fully master.

Manuals also give you a substantial advantage in poor weather. If you're in a situation with slick roads, a manual transmission gives you the ability to apply power as prescribed to reduce slipping - or to rapidly take power completely off the wheels to complete a rocking motion to get unstuck.

Manuals have a very real impact on *driver habits* as well - because driving is more involved, and because reading traffic and signal situations means you have to make specific choices, you're much more likely to pay attention to what's going on around you to understand what choice you may have to make, with respect to gearing. For this reason, driving a manual is much safer, because to do so is to be forced into situational awareness in order to effectively operate the vehicle with a minimal amount of hassle or discomfort.

Question: How do dogs smell/sense a persons they know without seeing them?
Answer: Dogs also have really good hearing it could be anything from the particular sound of their car to the rustling of keys. Dogs are very good at recognizing certain patterns.

Question: the OJ Simpson trial and why it was a big deal
Answer: 1. It involved a celebrity
2. It involved a black man who was accused of murdering a white woman, lots of racial tension
3. Despite overwhelming evidence, a team of very expensive lawyers were able manipulate a less competent prosecutor and judge, and allow their client to get away with murder
4. Both before and after the trial, consensus about his guilt or innocence ran along racial lines

Question: What does it mean to 'take the 5th'?
Answer: The American constitution codifies what rights the citizens of the country are entitled to. Written up in 1789, the Fifth Amendment of this constitution consists of the following:

 >  No person shall be held to answer for a capital, or otherwise infamous crime, unless on a presentment or indictment of a Grand Jury, except in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the Militia, when in actual service in time of War or public danger; nor shall any person be subject for the same offence to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb; nor shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor shall private property be taken for public use, without just compensation.

Pleading the fifth therefore means that a person does not have to be a 'witness against himself'. Even if they're just a witness in a trial, if they believe information they're being asked to tell a jury is self-incriminating in any way, they can 'plead the fifth' and legally avoid having to speak. However, prosecutors can argue against the contextual relevance of this move in court, so the presiding judge decides upon whether or not it's a valid usage of the fifth amendment.

Other things this amendment prevents is 'double jeopardy' (being tried of the same crime twice... even if they're acquitted for a murder they later admit to), and a grand jury must agree a charge is realistic before it even goes to trial.

Question: Why are humans unable to consume raw meat such as poultry and beef without becoming sick but many animals are able to?
Answer: * Humans can eat all food types raw - there is nothing "wrong" with our digestive system. You can eat veggies, meat, and fish raw but it carries the risk of you contracting a [foodborne illness](_URL_0_) (e.g. bacteria, parasite, or fungal contamination of food). The issue isn't the raw-ness per se, but rather the increased risk of getting a foodborne illness.

* ALL foods carry the risk of contracting a foodborne illness if eaten raw. Same thing goes for untreated water, in which case you carry the risk of contracting a [waterborne illness](_URL_4_) like [giardia](_URL_1_).

* Modern food distribution and water treatment systems make it harder for these foodborne/waterborne illnesses to get to you. However, we still have foodborne illness outbreaks on raw food because our system is not 100% safe. For example, when recalls are made for *E. coli* or [salmonella outbreaks on tomatoes](_URL_2_), lettuces, etc. Always try to prepare your food before eating it, this can save your life or at the very least save you from a very unpleasant couple of days.

* Preparing food (e.g. cooking, boiling, washing, peeling, freezing, smoking) all help reduce the risk of contracting a foodborne illness. Cooking specifically also has the added benefit of being easier to digest and enables us to extract more calories from cooked food. A double win. 

* [Wild animals](_URL_3_) and domestic animals can also and often do contract foodborne and waterborne illnessess. You shouldn't let your dog drink from an untreated stream because [they can get giardia just like you](_URL_5_). Any wildlife biologist, parasitologist, or veterinarian will tell you that wild animals and domestic animals (if left untreated or in unsanitary/crowded conditions) are/can be rife with parasites, foodborne, or waterborne illnesses. My point is animals are also susceptible to the same, and sometimes different, foodborne illness that we are.

* The only animals that have a much stronger (but not perfect) digestive system are carrion eaters like buzzards or vultures. They have very strong digestive systems that make it hard for foodborne illnesses to take hold.

Question: How do I set the office thermostats to make the most number of people happy?
Answer: Set it cool to keep the men happy, hand out sweaters to the females.

Question: What is the technical difference between home video, reality TV, TV drama, sitcoms and movie film?
Answer: Home video is made by people showing other people they know or their own activities (like vacations), and is generally to be shown to only people they know.

Reality TV shows are TV shows that show people who aren't paid actors and who are not told what to say.

TV drama shows people who aren't real. They are actors pretending to be someone else that has a different name, saying words someone else wrote for them to say.

Sitcoms are like a TV drama, except they are meant to be funny and the people in them say funny things. Sitcom comes from *situation comedy*.

A movie film is a long drama made to be shown in a cinema first, not made to be shown on TV.

All the above can be made using either video or film. Video is most common for home movies. Film most common for cinema movies.

Question: Why power buttons on power strips say "off" and "reset" instead of "off" and "on"
Answer: That is a surge protector, not just a power strip. Reset means "reset the breaker", like if too much power goes through it it'll turn off but if you flip it on and off again after fixing the power issue it'll come back on, instead of being just a fuse that breaks once and is dead.

Question: Why doesn't the world have a global currency?
Answer: This gets asked an awful lot - [please use the search function for a complete answer](_URL_0_).

The short version is it would involve relinquishing sovereignty, and we can't really get the entire world to agree on *anything*.

Question: Why do certain foods like pancakes or cake icing taste amazing at first but quickly become disgusting after I've had a certain amount?
Answer: Food scientists have found there is a "bliss point"  at which food tastes the best. It's a particular amount of sugar and fat. If you consume it for a certain amount of time, then you'll become sated and not want any more. This is not good from the perspective of food companies, who want you to keep eating more and more. So they've found that they can increase the amount you consume in several ways, one of which is that you can endure sweeter foods for longer at the bliss point if there is more fat in the food. So if you want to eat more pancakes, drink whole milk with it. Cake icing already has a lot of fat in it so that won't be a help. But a palate cleanser might help--something not sweet or fat.

Question: ELI'veonlyexperienced1season: How does the 4 seasons feel like?
Answer: In New Jersey, our summers can get up to around 37C, and our winters can get to -17C.  

Spring and fall are basically the perfect temperatures (fall is a little chillier) but you're really only missing out on one season: winter.  And you're not missing out.

Question: What's the difference between singing and speaking and are you actually producing a note when you speak?
Answer: There is no difference. Singing is just speaking in a different pitch. If you look at languages where the pitch of the pronounciation affects the meaning (e.g. Chinese), the music in these languages have lyrics written in a way so that the spoken lyrics follows the song's progression. If you read these lyrics out through normal speaking, it is almost like singing the song simply by following the correct pronounciation of the lyrics.

A note is just a sound at a particular frequency, which is the same as a spoken syllable. Whether or not speech sounds like an instrument depends on how different the waveforms are that generate the sound. An easy way to see this is to listen to the sounds of a sine wave and a sawtooth wave of the same frequency and compare their difference. Of course, speaking and singing have far more complicated waveforms, but the general idea is the same.

Question: Why do my balls (crotch area) have a distinct smell to them?
Answer: Bacteria multiplying with moisture retention, said bacteria creating odor as its trapped in hair follicles And friction from movement continuing to keep the conditions favorable for bacteria to thrive/ maintain comfortable existence. (Very oversimplified explanation though).

Question: Is it possible to become physically addicted to weed?
Answer: No.  Marijuana is not physically addictive, but it is possible to become psychologically addicted to it.

Question: How can 0's and 1's tell different pieces of hardware in a computer to do certain things?
Answer: 1 and 0 correspond to "voltage" and "no voltage" on a hardware level. So, for example, when "1001" is stored in RAM, it's put in a bank of four capacitors, which go

(voltage) (no voltage) (no voltage) (voltage)

The voltage (or lack thereof) can then be used to control transistors, which act like little switches. Lots of transistors together can be used to build logic circuits, which do the computing and stuff.

Question: Does an ad blocker prevent your bandwidth from being wasted on the ads?
Answer: Normally, an ad blocker works by blacklisting certain domains, so that stuff embedded from them isn't even loaded. So yes, they do save bandwidth.

Question: How in the fuck does manual driving work, and why is it considered better than automatic?
Answer: * Good things about manual transmission:

A manual transmission allows you to have more control.

* Bad things about manual transmission:

A manual transmission *requires* you to have more control.

More control is usually a good thing if you're driving a sports car.  It can be a hassle if you're just driving a regular car to get from place to place.

If you drive a manual transmission, you can expect to get about one more mile per gallon than an automatic transmission if you drive roughly the same.  If you learn how to specifically drive a manual transmission to save gas, you may be able to get up to four more miles per gallon.  At current gas prices, and depending on what your MPG already is, that's going to save you almost $80 a year for every average mpg you gain on a regular sedan.

* Bad things about automatic transmission:

Less feeling of being "in control" of the car's performance.

Slightly more fuel use.

If you are a guy, every one of your male friends will roll their eyes if you tell them you don't know how to drive a manual.  So what.

* Good things about automatic transmission:

Much easier to drive.

You're not constantly fussing with a gearshift, and let's face it, you now have that extra hand free to check the map on your smartphone, to take a call, or to eat a burrito.

It all comes down to whether saving $80 (typical) to $350 (very rare) a year is worth the hassle of driving a manual.

Question: How does a micro chip, which is seemingly just a bunch of metal and plastic, actually remember things and perform tasks?
Answer: What all that metal and plastic make are a huge amount of transistors which are then used to make what are called logic gates.  A logic gate takes two inputs (electrical currents) and produces one output.  The two most basic logic gates are the "and gate" and the "or gate".  With "and" if both inputs are true (usually a certain voltage of electrical signal like +5v) you get a true output otherwise you get a alse output (usually 0v), with or if either one of the inputs is true you get a true output otherwise you get a false.  Using this most basic logic you can build amazingly complex systems including memory.  The key is you have a huge number of these gates and they work incredibly fast.

Question: What is happening in California that is causing such a lack of water?
Answer: Basically: California gets its rainfall from the ocean. The ocean has been giving less, just as there is escalating demand for water from cities and agriculture. The ocean is providing less rain because of a persistent high pressure "bar" off the coast of California preventing rain clouds from forming. This high pressure is associated with a La Niña event, where the Pacific ocean is unusually warm on the Australasian side.

Question: Why were there so many big supporters of eugenics in the early 1900s (e.g., Tesla, Churchill), and what changed from then to now to shift views on the subject?
Answer: The main reason eugenics fell out of favor is that the people carrying it out were worse than the people they claimed were sub-human. The things the Nazis did ended up convincing just about everybody that eugenics was something only a crazy person would believe in. 

Eugenics doesnt purify anything, it only kills everybody else and leaves those who believe in it. 

When somebody does something that awful, its hard for people to accept anything related to it any more.

Question: Why do ultra conservative Christians care so much about gay marriage but don't care about eating shrimp (forbidden in Leviticus 11:10)?
Answer: Because Jesus fairly clearly said it was okay, according to the English standard version of the Bible. (Mark 7)

 >  And he called the people to him again and said to them, “Hear me, all of you, and understand:  There is nothing outside a person that by going into him can defile him, but the things that come out of a person are what defile him.”And when he had entered the house and left the people, his disciples asked him about the parable. And he said to them, “Then are you also without understanding? **Do you not see that whatever goes into a person from outside cannot defile him, since it enters not his heart but his stomach, and is expelled?” (Thus he declared all foods clean.)** And he said, “What comes out of a person is what defiles him. For from within, out of the heart of man, come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness,  All these evil things come from within, and they defile a person.”

Question: What does the fourth dimension represent? The fifth? The Nth?
Answer: They're the coordinates you need to locate an object in a given space.

If your "space" is a line, you only need one coordinate to locate an object in it. Think of a ruler. You can give one number, to locate any point on the ruler.  The line is one dimensional.

One a piece of paper, essentially two dimensional, you need two coordinates to locate a drawing, how far down the page, and how far from either side.

In a three dimensional image, like your living room, you need 3 coordinates to locate a table-top. Width, depth, height. 

We often call time the fourth dimension of a combined object, space time. That is to say, to locate an event, you need the three spatial coordinates, and this fourth dimension, time, to pinpoint that event.  

If you want to meet your girlfriend at the movies, it's not enough to tell her where they are, she also has to know when you are going to be there.

The universe as we know it appears to consist of 3 spatial dimensions, and one time. While there are some theories that postulate other dimensions, they either do not exist, or we do not observe them. There is not, as of this time, compelling evidence for them existing.

Question: How did Pakistan end up with nuclear weapons?
Answer: Pakistan got its ass handed to it in the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971. They ended up having to sign a humiliating surrender, much like Germany post WWI. Pakistan was livid over it, and wanted to put itself in a position where it never had to surrender again, so they invested **a lot** of money and manpower into making nuclear weapons. Also, Saudi Arabia donated a lot of money to the program as well, with the belief that they would be able to simply *buy* a Pakistani nuclear weapon if they ever needed it.

Question: how do you cook them . step by step . ?? thank you i need the help .
Answer: I was wondering the same thing just the other day. Hopefully we can find an expert on .

Question: What limits mobile data speed and why?
Answer: Alright, this won't be ELI5, but maybe ELI20 or so, but you seem to understand the basics of how we move information through the air, so let's press on.  The way that data is moved through the air is through waves, sin waves to be exact.  Computers speak binary, so an "up" in the wave is a 1, and a "down" is a 0.  So, one bit of info is a one or zero, eight of those is called a byte, and that is tranlated into a whole host of useful things including letters or simple commands.  

So, how does this relate to cell phones?  Well, the only thing we can use to move that data is a wave, and it moves at a certain frequency.  Let's say 800 Mhz.  So that means that in one second 1 million waves pass by.  Awesome.  So we can move 2 bits per wave, so one byte per four waves.  So in one million waves we can move 250,000 bytes.  A typical voice connection consists of a 2,000 bytes per second connection, so with a 800Mhz tower we can service 125 simultaneous voice connections.  To increase the number of users we can build more towers, we can play with the way we send out the waves doubling, or quadrupaling, even increasing it up to 16 times the data capacity, or we can expand the frequencies we transmit on to allow more users.  However, these things cost more money to do.

And that is just voice.  Let's say we want to add even dial up speed, that is 56kbps, or 7000 bytes per second.  Ouch.  So the cell companies expanded into other frequencies and used very sophisticated modulation (changing the "shape" of the waves) to push out the data required.  However, to pump out that kind of data you need a lot of power, and the range isn't very good, so you need many more towers, each one adding a multiple of cost to the overhead of the company.  

So basically, the more data you want to send, the more power you need to pump into the waves to get them far enough that your phone can still understand the data, this costs money, and that range is still very short, so you need many towers.  Further, most phones use four frequencies for their data, so now each tower needs to support four different frequencies, so the equipment roughly quadruples in each tower.  

And that is in it in a rough nutshell.  Cell companies are limited in the fact that you can't just throw a fiber line to each cell phone, you need to rely on analog waves, and to push out broadband speeds over the air you need a lot of equipment and a lot of power, so your cell phone bill is expensive.  

Costs go down because the technology gets cheaper, a 56kbps modem when they were first invented might have cost thousands, now you can probably find some free ones in the dump.  Second, eventually the initial infrastructure cost is paid off and these savings are given to you (See, Home Phone lines for a few dollars a month).

Question: Will any wine get better with age?
Answer: No most wines you buy are meant to e drank less than 3 years after bought.

Question: Why does eating the same food everyday make it taste bad after a while?
Answer: Humans are omnivores. That doesn't just mean we *can* eat a wide variety of foods, it means we *must* eat a variety.  Every evolutionary advance, it seems, is a compromise: in return for being able to eat many foods, our bodies don't produce everything we need - the missing ingredients are vitamins and amino acids. To make sure we eat enough of the right types of food, we've evolved also the need for variety in our diets. This may also be why we like so many spices.

Question: Why does everyone have to die?
Answer: There's a timer in the cells that make up your body called [the Hayflick Limit](_URL_0_). They can only repair and replicate themselves a set number of times. After that they begin to break down, and the larger body parts and organs that your cells make up begin to break down, too: your joints wear away, your skin loses elasticity. Eventually something vital stops working and you die. Some people's timers are longer than others'.

Question: Why Are The Winners of Running Competitions Like Marathons Almost Always From Africa?
Answer: The "Kenyans" train very hard. They also train at a very high altitude. When they come down to sea level and run with us puny Americans they have an easier time because of how much oxygen they need to accomplish the same thing. Kind of like how sherpas can jog all over Mt Everest.

Question: what is the difference between fire and flame?
Answer: Fire is generally the state of being, or is the name giving to the entity at large. The tree is on fire. That fire is huge.

Flame refers to the actual "tendrils" (for lack of a better word) that combine to create what we see as the fire. Those flames are licking the bottom of the pot.

Question: why are latitude lines parallel, but longitudinal lines converge at the polls?
Answer: Because it makes the most sense. If you walk east/west, you're only changing longitude, if you walk north/south, you're only changing latitude. If longitude were defined like latitude, only orthogonal, then you'd get really weird results that would be confusing. For example, there'd be some arbitrary line (wherever the longitudinal equivalent of the equator would be) where things would work as they do now, but anywhere else, moving east/west would cause your longitude to change at different rates depending on your latitude, and also there'd be some latitudes at which certain longitudes aren't possible. And if you went north/south, you'd be changing both your latitude and longitude.

Question: Why do men have an Adam's apple but women don't?
Answer: Women do in fact have them, it's just that they become much more pronounced in men after puberty.

Question: What is the explanation behind the phrase 'peace is not profitable'?
Answer: Countries participating in a war have to free up a tremendous amount of capital to fund the war effort. They divert savings or borrow to build factories, create stockpiles of food and armament for soldiers, mass-produce vehicles, and so on. And funding a war takes a LOT of money, with all of it actually being spent and entering the economy.

All this purchasing means the economies of all the merchants, suppliers and company owners who provide all that are given a massive boost, as are the economies of the merchants who supply them (e.g. the cafeteria owner at the munitions plant), and the merchants who supply them (the local bakeries that supply the pies sold at the cafeteria), and so on.

For many businesses it creates demand that essentially removes the ceiling that peacetime businesses often hits once the market is saturated by itself and its competitors. 

Also also: In cultures such as the vikings, war came with pillaging, where you invaded another country and you sent the riches of their cities home to your own country. War could be highly profitable, but a soldier during peace-time either wasn't paid or was paid a pittance.

Question: Why are some people "mouth breathers" and other people "nose breathers"?
Answer: It's more natural for people to breathe through their noses when they are at rest. In about 85% of cases, mouth breathing is caused by blockage in the nasal cavities that prevents people from getting enough air through their noses.

Question: How is betting allowed on WrestleMania, when the outcome is predetermined?
Answer: The outcome might be predetermined but it is not publicly announced before it happens.

The people that are betting for and against a certain wrestler are not people that know what the outcome will be, only a few people (the production crew and the wrestlers in this case) will actually know what the outcome will be, and they are most likely not allowed to bet on the outcome themselves.

Question: What is a TV show's rating an how accurate is it?? ELI5 please
Answer: It's an estimate of how many people watched it. In the US they're done by a company called Nielsen which either gets people to keep diaries of what they watched or installs a device that connects to your TV and automatically reports back.

It's about as accurate as you expect considering they survey 0.02% of families and then extrapolate it for the whole country.

Question: Those "fundraisers" that have grade school kids running around selling a company's products door to door. Are they technically legal? If so, why?
Answer: Of course they're legal, though I believe (if I remember from the days of being a kid) your parents had to sign a consent form; I might be wrong.  These fundraisers are often part of a sale of things like Girl Scout cookies, magazines, candy bars and other little stuff.  The products are over priced intentionally because the customer knows a portion of the sale is going towards the fundraiser, which is usually used to bring money in to the club or team the child is a part of.  That money can go towards things like field trips (camp outs perhaps) as well as incentives/rewards/points the kid can earn by selling certain quotas.  Want a new pocket knife Johnny, go sell 40 subscriptions of Mens Health.  It's a win for the kid, win for the club they're in, and a win for the customer (if they're honestly interested in supporting their community by purchasing something they want for a little more than retail).

Question: What was so good about the 'good' old days?
Answer: People tend to be nostalgic and look back on the past with rose tinted glasses; forgetting bad events or remembering them more fondly than at the time they took place. When something is in the past and not going to happen again or cause you any problems in the future it is much easier to look back on it with a happy thought.

Plenty of young people do it too. Go over to /r/gaming and you will find that 10-15 years ago was the high point in media when everything was wonderful.

Question: What 'tracking' does on a VCR?
Answer: Such a retro question!

VCRs use reel to reel technology. So tape goes from one wheel, through a reader head, and into another wheel.

That reader head has to very carefully line up with the VCR tape in a particular way. In a VCR, the head actually reads diagonally. This diagonal innovation is what got VCR to exist. Otherwise, there just wasn't enough room on the tape.

When you are adjust tracking, you are making tiny adjustments to the reader head to get it to line up more correctly.

Question: How did the whole microchip credit card thing start?
Answer: For under $100, you can buy a device that will write a credit card number to the magstrip on a card.  There is virtually *zero* security involved there.  It was also becoming increasingly common for criminals to place "skimmers" - devices that would capture the number of cards run through it - on ATMs  &  gas pumps.

Those chips, OTOH, are nearly impossible to copy with a single use.

Question: Why does air cool when it's pressure decreases? (Conversely, why does air heat up when it's pressure increases?)
Answer: Temperature is caused by atoms and molecules whizzing around and hitting off each other. The more collisions, the higher the temperature. If you hold a finite volume of air in a container (say 1 mole, a unit of measurement for atoms and molecules) and change the size of the container, that effects whether the molecules bounce off each other and the sides of the container more or less. If it expands (decrease in pressure) there's more space for the molecules to move around and they bounce off each other less. If it gets smaller (more pressure) they bounce off each other more.

Question: Why do we all perceive time going in the same direction?
Answer: There is a concept in physics called the [Arrow of Time](_URL_0_). This is basically the fact that time seems to only flow in one direction, despite the fact that on the smallest scales physics should be independent of the direction in which time flows. However, the reason why this is the case is an outstanding unsolved problem.

Question: What do people mean when they say a singular sperm contains 35MB of data and how did somebody figure this out?
Answer: Because a sperm cell contains data in the form of DNA. All cells (except some weird ones like red blood cells) contain DNA. DNA is a code of four base units in groups of 3 in various combinations. A section of a string of DNA might say GGGAAACCC which is GGG, AAA, and CCC, which would correspond to three different amino acids.

So, all cells with a nucleus contain data.

Sperm cells are a little special because they are small, and contain very little cellular organnelles except a nucleus, mitochondria, and a tail & motor. So proportionally, they contain more data per gram than say, a muscle cell.

Question: What's the difference in meaning of the word "liberal" as in 1) Liberal Democracy and 2) Liberal political candidate?
Answer: 'Liberalism' is basically broken down into two broad schools of thought. "Social liberalism" is basically what most people think of as "left-wing", whereas "classical liberalism" is something closer to libertarianism. 

This explains the difference. Some conservatives embrace aspects of classical liberalism, free market economics, etc. In Australia, the main conservative party is actually called the "Liberal Party", based on this broader definition of liberalism. But these people would not identify as social liberals or "left wing". 

The confusion in the US comes because this broader definition of liberalism seems to have been lost, and "liberal" seems to mean exclusively "social liberalism".

(Also note that like many other political terms, "liberal" is sometimes just thrown out there as a generic grab-bag political insult, and may not be meant in any literal or meaningful sense).

Question: Why is music emotionally moving?
Answer: Many things in life can make you feel strong emotions. Your brain has been meticulously forged by evolution to emote to different events in order to keep you alive. 

Also, you have been exposed to music throughout your life, and like a dog who learned to salivate when a bell is ringed before the serving of a delicious beef, you learned to emote to different musical patterns differently, which is why this beautiful classical piece makes you feel moved.

The building blocks of those emotional responses to different sounds are, however, embedded in all humans from birth. For instance, very low-pitched strong bass sounds make everyone feel edgy, curious and contemplative (in general), which makes it appropriate to space exploration movies (which also elicit those feelings), [see this for an example.](_URL_0_)

The causes for this are related with evolution. Strong low-pitched bass sounds in the wild are generally associated with big predators, and feeling edgy and uneasy when exposed to those sounds probably helped early humans to survive and pass those genes on to you. High pitched, melodic and soft sounds are related to feminine maternal voices, which are associated with feelings of pleasure and safety. Screaming and horror sounds make you feel anxious and worried because those sounds in the wild, again, meant trouble.

Source: [Musician.](_URL_1_)

Question: If USPS postman doesn't ask for my sign and drops off package, what's stopping someone from ordering expensive stuff from amazon and claiming it never arrived ?
Answer: The shipper decides if a signature is needed. I have delivered $5 items requiring a signature and also left $2000 items on a porch when the shipper did not require proof of delivery. 

Source: Ex FedEx driver

Question: Why do muscle injuries hurt a little on the day of the injury, but are unbearable the next day? Isn't sleep supposed to heal? (Graph Provided for Visual Aid)
Answer: I will attempt to give a loose description of what, I think, is most likely the case.

When your body experiences trauma, whether blunt, sharp, increased or strenuous exercise not previously conditioned into by the body or any form of inflammation, whether caused by a bacteria, virus, parasite or fungi, the body will go through an inflammatory response that has an affect on many different systems within the body. These are a mechanism to protect the body to ensure homeostasis, or simply put, as close to "normal" function as possible.

One of those cascades is associated with inflammatory cytokines. Or simply put, substances(think of them as smoke signals) that get released from damaged tissue(cells), nervous tissue, the blood etc to communicate with the rest of the body. In this instance, cells are telling the brain that there is damage that gets relayed to the brain, making you conscious of the problem. This is called nociception(pain). Some of these communicative substances are Potassium, as its the predominate ion within cells, so naturally when a cell bursts from swelling, trauma etc it is released into the surrounding space, certain prostaglandins and Substance P.

As the body is going through this inflammatory response and begins to heal, your body wants to keep your mind aware of the trauma. Substance P lowers your pain threshold. Or lessens the amount of stimulus that is needed to make you aware of it. This allows for less of a stimulus, repeated trauma, whatever it may be, to be noticed more easily by the brain. In doing so, this allows your body to protect that of which is going through the healing process.

In the case of Substance P, in relation to trauma, is a protective mechanism for the body to heal itself.

I hope this makes sense. Again, this is overly simplified and it is much more complicated. There are many intra/extra-relationships that drive all processes in the body and hard to simplify.

Question: What's the big deal with electric vehicles? Doesn't coal still have to burn somewhere to provide the electricity to charge the car, which means that they're still releasing CO2 into the air?
Answer: The coal plant is more efficient and more cost effective than a car engine at producing power and scrubbing pollutants.

Question: How do planets 'float' in space?
Answer: They don't. There is no up or down in space, so if you put something there it will just stay there, it doesn't need to float.

However anything with mass is pulling everything else with mass towards it. This is the force of gravity, which is why we are pulled towards the center of the Earth. And also the Earth is pulled to the sun, but the Earth is also moving sideways. We are falling towards the sun, but we are moving so fast sideways that we are constantly missing it. This is what an orbit it, same reason why the moon, all our satellites and the space station don't crash in to the Earth.

Question: What would happen realistically if North Korea invaded South Korea?
Answer: they would lose, after completely destroying the country.  The first wave of rocket fire would be devastating.  It would last as long as it takes for NATO to get in position.

Question: Fake torrents with thousands of seeds and leeches
Answer: People can purchase seeds for their torrents, which leads to many leechers thinking it's real.

Question: [meta] Can we put a note about the trillion-dollar coin in the sidebar?
Answer: Not specifically the trillion dollar coin, but a common question section would be good. There also needs to be much, much more moderation. If someone asks a repeat question that has been asked this often or if someone asks a question that isn't coherent enough to answer it should be deleted.

Question: How and why did "I have to" come into existence in English as a substitute for "I need to?"
Answer: The earliest meaning of "to have" was "to grasp", way back, before English even existed. From there it took on many more functions. First, it started meaning "to own", which was not too far from it's original meaning. Then, it became an auxiliary (helping) verb: "I have seen him". This happened in Old English, during the Middle Ages. It then became a modal auxiliary, "to have to", also in Old English. *Why* this happened is unclear, as always in language. There have been similar developments in other languages with verbs like "to have", such as Latin and German.

Question: Would our perception of time change if we were many times larger (100x, 150x) than we are today?
Answer: Yes, probably. Larger animals in general perceive time more slowly, as it takes longer for any impulse to cross their larger nervous systems. That's why it's so hard to catch or swat flies; to them, you're moving in slow-motion.

_URL_0_

Question: Microeconomics.
Answer: Say you have 20 people who like ice cream by a varying amount.  Person #1 is willing to pay $1 for a cone, person #2 is willing to pay $2 a cone because he likes it a bit more, person #3 is willing to pay $3 a cone because he likes it even more, all the way up to person #10 is willing to pay $10 a cone because he loves ice cream.
This is your demand curve.  If ice cream is $10, only one person will buy it.  If ice cream is $9, two people will buy it.  If ice cream is $8, 3 people will buy it, etc.

Now we need suppliers.  Supplier #1 can make ice cream really cheap and will sell it for $1.  Supplier #2 can only sell ice cream for $2 and stay in business.  Etc. all the way up to supplier #10 who won't sell ice cream for less than $10.  This is our supply curve.  If ice cream is selling for $1, then only one person is willing to make it.  If it's selling for $2, then only 2 people.  If it's selling for $10, then all 10 will sell it.  This is our supply curve.

Now we have to see where supply meets demand (which is $5).  If the price is $6, then 6 people will be willing to make it, but only 4 will be willing to pay for it.  If the price is $4, then 4 people will be willing to make it, but 6 people will be wiling to buy it.  So the magic price is $5 where 5 people are willing to make it and 5 people are willing to buy it.

Question: Why does getting hit/shot/stabbed/any other type of injury, in the arm hurt less or seems to hurt less than anywhere else on the body?
Answer: TV is not reality.  It hurts like a motherfucker.

Question: Why do people create computer viruses?
Answer: Short answer: they (usually) want to make money. Some of them have bigger fish to fry. Depends. Warning: The ELI5 explanation may not make sense at some points.

Quick terminology guide: 

**malware** = all-encompassing term for viruses, adware, scareware, rootkits, anything that wants to inconvenience you. I use 'malware' and 'infection' interchangeably below.

**virus** = any code that will replicate itself, whether by sending out infected emails, reaching out to networked computers to infect them, or transmission through any other vector. Thanks to the media, 'virus' and 'malware' are more or less interchangeable in society's eyes. They shouldn't be - not all malware is a virus, but all viruses are malware. 

The rest is explained below.

**ELI5**:

You've got four main types of malware. Scam infections, spyware, trojan horses, and rootkits.

Say you're counting your money. You're doing so openly because you know the police (antivirus companies) will protect you if anyone tries to take your money.

Most malware attempts to take your money. Some, like the scam infection, may dress up like a police officer and tell you that you're in a lot of danger, so you should give them your money. But they are not actually a police officer, they're just disguised as one! 

Others are sneakier. Spyware will follow you to the bank without you seeing it and watch you give your money to the teller. Then it will disguise itself as you and ask the teller for your money.

Some malware (trojans) doesn't even want your money. They want to use you for their own means. They'll put a saddle on you and make you butt heads with the bigger kids - and all the other little kids you know have saddles on them as well, and the viruses hope to use these numbers to cause damage to the big kids. *(edit: this is referring to botnets - I can't think of any real way to illustrate this to a five-year-old, sorry if it sounds stupid)*

And then some malware, you can't even see! They're invisible. But this malware (rootkits) is usually backed by very powerful and evil men, and you won't even know they're there until they've slipped into your pants and given you a wedgie.

For anyone looking for something more comprehensive: 

**Scareware, adware and keyloggers/spyware**


Contrary to what the media/Hollywood would like you to believe, most of the malware that everyday computer users face is not the overnight work of some bespectacled nerd with a taste for chaos sitting in a dark room lit by dozens of CRT monitors. Rather, most malware nowadays is small-time, cheap exploit code that is aimed at doing one thing: making money. It does this by either:

- getting you to outright pay them yourself. There are many infections that will act as fake antivirus programs (known as '[scareware](_URL_2_)') in order to get your credit card information; they establish themselves on a computer, start wreaking havoc, then bring up a window saying that the fake antivirus has caught some nonexistent issues. However, the scareware is always a free trial, and you have to buy the 'real' version for it to 'clean' your computer. Other infections will just lock you out completely until you enter credit card information.
[Here is what your typical scareware looks like.](_URL_8_) Generally, these will have lots of spelling mistakes, horrible grammar, and one giant button that tells you you're in trouble and to buy the 'full version'. Also, note that it's finding viruses (these are fake entries) in all the places, accompanied with bogus or mismatched virus types. Most people can see through this, but the seniors or technologically-stupid of the world may not.

- sitting behind the scenes and sending your information to others. This malware - generally referred to as 'spyware' - is often based around 'keyloggers', which will record your keyboard's keystrokes and upload them to a human controller; then, when the controller has information they deem useful (e.g. your online banking password), they can take your money.

*Why?*


As mentioned above, these are almost purely profit-motivated infections. These types of malware rarely attempt to spread themselves to other users' computers. They want to raise as little suspicion as possible - you may not be as inclined to give out your credit card number to a message on your computer if your friends start calling you and telling you you're sending them spam emails. So, really, they are not viruses, but just infections - they are almost always contracted as a result of downloading something infected, be it an email attachment, bad file, or something from a shady torrent/peer-to-peer site. 

These infections can range from severe, like the two examples above, to mild, like most '[adware](_URL_6_)', which just spams your computer or changes certain links to lead to shady websites which try to sell you stuff. Adware, scareware and keyloggers are usually the easiest to get rid of, and comprise the brunt of infections that plague the world today. 


   **Trojans/botnets**


That isn't to say worse things don't exist. Heavier infections, such as [trojan horses](_URL_4_), serve to compromise a user's control over a computer for various reasons, usually by making security holes (back doors) for malicious code to run through. Some trojan horses are deployed for the purposes of creating a [botnet](_URL_9_) - if many computers are infected with the same trojan, they become [zombie](_URL_0_) machines with which many things can be done. If you've ever read about 4chan's infamous DDOS attacks, for example, a botnet works in much the same way - large amounts of computers generate junk signals to overwhelm a target and bring it down through sheer brute force. 

   *Why?*


These types of infections are generally tooled towards causing chaos, and may be used to attack large websites or organizations by using the controlled computers to flood web servers en-masse in a [distributed denial of service attack](_URL_3_). They may also be used to farm bank information through a combination of trojan doorways and keyloggers. Botnets are rare, as they are nowhere near as easy to deploy as simple scareware, and operating a botnet is a high-profile digital offense, whether it's for DDOS purposes or harvesting information (see [here](_URL_1_) for an example of counter-botnet efforts).

*Generally*, infections that exist to make their operators money are not run by skilled users. Those infections are mass-produced templates that are sold on the market to whoever wants to run them; they're shabbily-coded, often very easy to see through if you have the slightest clue about computers, and have a short lifespan (as antivirus programs will just update to defeat them after they're released). On the other hand, trojans, especially those used for botnets, take heavy-duty coding, coordination, and are usually run by more notorious groups. (relevant note: botnet controllers are generally known as herders or botherders)


   **Rootkits**


The ultimate viruses - and this is where we start approaching Hollywood territory - are [rootkits](_URL_7_). These viruses are very hard to combat for one reason - they are able to actively hide their presence from the rest of the computer. Without going into excessive detail about the layers of an operating system, think of it like this: your computer is composed of two major parts, the hardware (physical, tangible box containing all the circuitry and whiz-bang that makes a computer run) and the software. These two parts act as a sandwich for a multitude of smaller layers that gradually fill the gap between reality and the digital world of an operating system, all for the purpose of taking a user's actions and translating them down to machine level so that the computer can do something with them. Rootkits can run beneath the top, or application, layer of the operating system, effectively cloaking themselves or making themselves impossible to remove without advanced techniques. 


   *Why?*


Rootkits are some of the most malicious code out there, and are developed by the best hackers in the industry. They are extremely rare, and most users will not run into one unless they're really unlucky. Due to the skill involved in making a rootkit successfully, few hackers know how to do so, and, if they manage to make a competent rootkit, antivirus companies will immediately start releasing protective updates to prevent them from taking hold on machines. 

Recently, we saw rootkits being used on an international scale for electronic warfare - see [Stuxnet](_URL_5_). Rootkits can be very, *very* complicated - Stuxnet was actually able to physically manipulate machinery. 

And then, lastly, some people just write viruses for fun, but this is a very small percentage.

   **Addendum**


It should be noted that malware types are not mutually exclusive. Scareware can incorporate a trojan, a rootkit can incorporate scareware, etc. - generally, they stay exclusive because it's easier to do things that way (you want a rootkit to be as inconspicuous as possible, for example), but there's no hard and fast guide or 'Viruses 101' that says only one type of infection can be deployed at once, or that certain types can't contain elements of other malware. 



*EDIT #1*: added a bunch of Wikipedia links for further reading, expanded a bit on some sections, separated sections into virus definition and 'why'? for clarity, added introductory definitions.

Question: Why do we (usually) sleep better in hotels or other people's beds?
Answer: This is probably anecdotal and it varies from person to person. Personally I sleep much worse in any other bed than my own. You might want to check if your mattress/bed is of poor quality and look into investing into quality ones, sleeping well is important. Also it might be psychological, maybe you have some issues at home and when you're away you can relax and be carefree.

Question: Why do they tell you to take birth control for a week to be protected, when at the end of the month you take plaecbos. Why don't you have to wait a week into the next month to be protected also?
Answer: Found online:

When you menstruate, it's because the egg released by the ovary either wasn't fertilized, or was fertilized but did not implant in the uterus, so your endometrium which has built up from all of those directives, to prepare for a fertilized egg implanting, then sloughs itself off. That's what your flow is during menses (which is also why sometimes it has little globs in it, rather than just fluid).

When you take the pill, the synthetic hormones send a different set of signals to your reproductive system entirely, so that you do not ovulate -- release that egg -- so that your vaginal secretions become and remain thicker (to make it tougher for sperm to get to an egg in the case something went amiss there), and so that that endometrial lining doesn't build up as much (in the case that the other two modes go awry, that would make it really tough for a fertilized egg to implant). That's three different ways to protect you from pregnancy, and even just one of those ways is often enough.

The reason why you don't have any extra risks during that placebo week is because of all of the things the pill has done in the three weeks prior, and which it will do once you start taking it again. During that week, you don't need pills because they've already prevented ovulation and fertilization, so you couldn't become pregnant during that period of time, as without all those preceding signals to be fertile, you can't suddenly become fertile in that week.

Sometimes this is more simply explained by saying that the pill tricks your body into thinking it already ovulated in a given cycle -- thinking that through every day of every cycle you're using the pill. In a normal fertility cycle, once ovulation has come and gone, a person is highly unlikely to become pregnant. Same goes for people using the pill.

Question: Why is it that over time reposted images become smaller and blurrier?
Answer: Many websites don't initially display the full image, but a downscaled version of it that you need to view in full resolution by clicking it or opening it in a new window. They do this to reduce unnecessary traffic, for example when people look at it on mobile devices that wouldn't be able to display the full picture anyways.

If people don't know know that, they save the smaller version, and when they repost that one, the same thing can happen.

Question: What is the Internet of Things?
Answer: It's where everything you own would be connected to the internet. For instance your fridge or your fruit bowl. Each device would behave differently and post data to the internet. For instance your fridge would relay its temperature and allow you to adjust it. Maybe your fruit bowl would send you a text when there's been nothing in it for a few days. 

That way you could theoretically control everything you own from anywhere in the world.

Question: Is gravity's effects instantaneous, or does its influence take time to reach an object, like light does?
Answer: Gravitons move at the speed of light. Gravity is not instant.

Question: Why can't I do my taxes like I am a business?
Answer: The standard deduction, personal exemptions, and progressive tax brackets should accomplish the same goal, without the book keeping effort.  That is, you don't pay federal income taxes until you are making above sustenance level of income, and taxes increase as you are more able to pay those taxes.

Question: If there are so much garbage orbiting the earth such that they collide with each other, how come view of sky is not changed since 20 years?
Answer: There are a huge amount of space junk orbiting the earth. 
According to ESA 2013
 > 29,000 - for sizes larger than 10 cm

 > 670,000 - for sizes larger than 1 cm

 > More than 170 million - for sizes larger than 1 mm.

But the volume they are in are enormous. If you look at a graph at _URL_1_ there are less then on  per 1000 km^2 where is is most concentrated. That includes all object  > 1mm

Satellites and large space junk like rocket tanks are visible but you have likely not looked close enough at the sky at night to see them

Lock at _URL_0_ for your location and you will find which satellites are visible 
You will notice how faint the reflected light from a satellite or a rocket stage is. There is not chance that you can see a small object in orbit with your eyes.

But the can also be quite bright. ISS is the third brights object in the sky if it passes over you. The only brighter things are the sun and the moon.

Flares are even brighter but they only cover a small area of the earth. Look at Iridium Flares at _URL_0_ and go out an look at one. You have to use the exact location where you are going to spot them because they are only 10 km wide on the ground and the brightness varies inside them.  They can even be seen during the day.

Question: Why isn't beer sold in plastic bottles, like soda?
Answer: _URL_0_

Also, plenty of sporting events and concerts sell beer in plastic bottles so drunk people don't throw glass bottles at each other.

Question: Are the arguments for racial differences in intelligence, such as proposed by the 1994 book 'The Bell Curve', strong or weak?
Answer: Current theory is less about racial differences and more about socio-economic differences. Poorer groups with less focus on education tend to perform worse on IQ tests than wealthier groups with more focus on education (over the past few generations). 

Of course, the current theory is largely biased away from connecting intelligence to race, as that is a very socially dangerous topic. It's the same reason we can't say that "blacks are better at sports in general", or "the Jews are better in school in general", even if it might be true.

Question: How do planetary gears work?
Answer: [This is a good concise animation of the whole thing](_URL_1_). The orange on in the middle is the sun gear. the three greenish ones in the middle are the planet gears and the outer ring is the ring gear. The sun and ring gears are the inputs and outputs, it does not matter which one but only those two can be connected to anything.

[There is a bit more though](_URL_0_) There is also this thing called a planetary carrier, which is what allows them all to spin the way they do. In many cases the carrier or things attached to it are capable of locking which makes the output shaft spin at the same rate and direction as the input shaft (ie 1:1). This creates a simple two speed gear set.

Automatic transmissions typically use planetary gears (as opposed to manual transmissions). A 4 speed automatic has 2 sets of planetary gears where each set has the two speeds mentioned earlier. The ratios of the gears are different and this way there are a total of 4 unique ratios of input/output (one of which is always 1 to 1). If both gear sets are the same size you would only get 3 speeds (since two combinations are the same). Automatic transmissions with more speeds like 6, 8, and even 10 can be achieved by concatenating multiple sets of planetary gears. reverse is usually achieved by having a separate ring set with [two sets of planets](_URL_2_) so that the direction of the output becomes reversed.

Question: Why do so many types of pills result in dry-mouth?
Answer: A lot of medications have anticholinergic effects, that is, they block the receptors for acetylcholine, the neurotransmitter that induces salivation. Anything that stimulates adrenalin receptors might cause the same effect too

Question: When can you carry something heavy why do you always only 'just make it'?
Answer: For the same reason you always have to pee more the closer you get to a bathroom when you really have to go.   Your mind sets limits and your body reacts to those limits.

Question: Why are movies rated PG-13, but TV shows rated TV-14 in the US? Why do they increase the age by 1 for TV shows?
Answer: The film ratings system is administered by the Motion Picture Association of America, while television content ratings are governed by the Federal Communications Committee. Other than that there really isn't a reason.

Question: How does electricity get converted to movement in machines?
Answer: Magnets.

If you coil wire around a piece of metal and apply electricity, you make an electromagnet. If you also have a regular magnet nearby, you can get them to pull together.

If you also set this up in a cycle, you can keep applying electricity and pulling to the next magnet, and create a motor.

Question: How do musicians sample older songs?
Answer: There are many ways to do this, but procuring original individual tracks is not one of them. I'm not going to type a novel here, but EQ, filters, and other effects are commonly used.

Question: Why do companies price things at $4.99 instead of $5.00?
Answer: Psychologically 4 is less than 5. Since we read left to right, we see the 4 first and automatically associate it as being less than 5.

Question: How come Americans have large portion sizes and relatively cheap prices for their food?
Answer: When you go to a restaurant, you pay for the service first, then for the actual food. As a rule of thumb, the ingredients usually make up only 1/4 to 1/3 of the costs. Additionally, the work of preparing a dish twice as large usually isn't twice as much for the chef.

So it comes down to the customer's expectations. Americans expect large meals, so the restaurants deliver - without hurting their profits much.

Question: Why would the Eurozone collapsing be a bad thing. Can't they all just go back to their own currencies?
Answer: Depends on your timeframe.

If you are talking about the long term consequences, like hundreds of years, then yes, of course, the countries can go back to their old currencies and they will adjust to whatver pros and cons that arrangement has.

However if you are talking about time scales important to people alive, remember that many people don't like making adjustments.  Furthermore many people will have arranged their lives in a way that will mean a change in currency will make them either rich or bankrupt, the former will lead parades in the streets in favour. The latter will lead riots in the streets against the former.  Civil war is not an impossibility.

So for example, if a country leaves the face many challenges:
- if even a whisper of the plan leaks, their banking system will risk collapse as people try to withdraw cash to convert into something perceived as safer
- once completed, many countries will want to instantly devalue their currnecy by printing tons of it.  Their former EU partners to whom they owe billions, will end up getting less after a devaluation.  Hence they are unlikely to make this easy.
- after a devaluation, people who had kept their money out of the country will be rich, people who kept their money in the country will be poor.  This will create strong tensions and resentment

All these effects are well known and easily anticipated by everyone, so everyone will tend to make financial moves today based on their perceptions of the likelihood of a currency change happening, rather than sitting calmly until it's announced.

In the end, in currency, careers, and dating, confidence is all that matters.

Question: Rearranging formulas/equations while following BEDMAS
Answer: A common issue is when multiplying or dividing, people tend to forget to apply to *all* terms in the equation.

An Algebra 1 example would be like this:

 > **3x + 5 = 24**

You might think to do this:

 > x + 5 = 8

thinking that you "divided both sides by 3." But in that case, you forgot the 5.

So you should have done this:

 > x + 5/3 = 8

OR, you could have done the subtraction first instead:

 > 3x = 19

The second approach is what's referred to as "reverse order of operations," meaning that when solving equations, it's usually easier to deal with addition/subtraction first, then multiplication/division, and so on.

=====

Does this help, or is it way too basic for what you are talking about? An example problem might be a good idea.

Question: Does drinking water actually have a flavor?
Answer: If they were all pure H2O, they would taste the same. However, water from different sources have different chemicals and minerals in them - it's not "just" water by a long shot. Different bottlers, different municipalities and other water sources all have different kinds and amounts of impurities that affect the taste of water.

Question: When repaving a road, why do they skip the overpass?
Answer: I don't think they can pave continuously because of the expansion joints.

Question: What is Matroid Theory?
Answer: It is like matrix on steroids. Matrices are studied in linear algebra and they are easy because they have a well understood structure with straightforward consequences. Matrices are are hard because such said rules are still much more abstract that what you see in high school or basic calculus. Matroids are like matrices except that they are even more general and will thus remain unaccessible until you master linear algebra. Matroids are useful in graph theory, combinatorics, and coding theory.

Question: why can't blood from organ transplant patients be accepted for donation?
Answer: According to [this](_URL_0_) you just have to wait a year to donate blood.  I'm guessing it is because of anti-rejection medication.  Also says no brain transplant stuff because of prions.

Question: How do induction cooktops stay cool to the touch but still effectively heat pans?
Answer: I can try to make it simpler. When you have a piece of metal moving through a magnetic field (or a moving magnetic field with a stationary piece of metal. it doesn't really matter honestly, something in the system just has to be moving), because the metal is moving through the magnetic field, and electrons have electromagnetic properties, the electrons will begin to be "pushed" through the metal, creating a current. This is how induction works. Because the oven only creates a magnetic field, it is not hot to the touch. BUT, the pan will be made out of some resistive material (really, everything is resistive to a point). A resistive material basically means that the molecules in the material are condensed enough that the electrons will keep bouncing off all of the atoms while they try to move through. These electrons have kinetic energy while they are being pushed by the magnetic field. Once they bounce off an atom in the metal, this kinetic energy is converted into heat energy (due to conservation of energy, energy can't just disappear). Because there are billions/trillions/some really large number of electrons all bouncing off atoms an releasing heat energy in this metal, the piece of metal will heat up.



Was that simple enough? I know I used a lot of science and jargon and stuff.

Question: Cantor's continuum Hypothesis
Answer: This answer is pretty lengthy and slightly technical, but it does not assume much prior understanding of mathematics. There's an abundance of wrong or misleading answers to mathematics questions on /r/explainlikeimfive, and I want to instead provide one that does the question justice. Maybe this answer is worse than other ones because it's difficult or boring, but at least it should be correct and pretty comprehensive.

#Sets
Mathematics is all about *sets*. A set is just a collection of things (called *elements* or *members*) that you consider as its own separate object. For instance, there's the set of counting numbers (*natural numbers*), that mathematicians usually write ℕ or **N**:  
**N** = {0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, …}  
This is how sets are usually written down; you list the elements inside curly braces.

Other well-known named sets of numbers are the integers:  
**Z** = {…, -3, -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, 3, …};  
the rational numbers (i.e. fraction):  
**Q** = {0, 1/2, 1/3, 2/3 1/4, 3/4, 1/5, …, 1, 3/2, 4/3, 5/3, …, -1/2, -1/3, …};
and the real numbers (i.e. decimal numbers):  
**R** = {0, 5, 1/7, 0.176253…, π, -√2, ³√17, …}.  
(Don't try to make out some structure to the **R** example. There's no systematical way of listing all real numbers. We'll get to that in a bit.)

#Cardinality
Now, let's get to what the continuum hypothesis is all about: *cardinality*. Basically, there are two different uses for the natural numbers: position and size, or in mathematical nomenclature: *ordinality* and *cardinality*. You can use the natural numbers to count position in a list:  
1. First position  
2. Second position  
3. Third position  
⋮  
You can also use them to count the number of items in a set (i.e. its size):  
\#{1, 2, 3} = 3  
\#{π, 15, -1/2, 2017} = 4  
\#{} = 0  
The set {1, 2, 3} has size 3 (because it has 3 elements), the set {π, 15, -1/2, 2017} has size 4, and the empty set {} has 0 elements.

It might seem like nitpicking to have two separate concepts for position in a list and for size of a collection, at least for sets of finite size. However, these two concepts turn out to work differently for infinite sets. I won't go into infinite ordinality, because it's pretty involved, and not important to the continuum hypothesis. You will have to slightly understand cardinality in a way that transfers to sets of infinite size, though. 

Here's how to do it: When measuring the size of a set, don't count the number of elements. That would be using ordinality ("this is the first element", "this is the second element", …) which I've already promised doesn't work the same as cardinality for infinite sets. Instead, just pair elements up. I don't need to enumerate the elements in {1, 7, π, 15} and in {√2, -3, 3/5, 69} to know that the sets are of the same size; I can just pair the elements up:

1↔√2  
7↔-3  
π↔3/5  
15↔69

No counting of elements needed! This concept transfers to sets of infinite size. We say that two sets have the same cardinality (size) if their elements can be paired up. The "can be" is important. The sets {0, 1, 2, 3, …} and {1, 2, 3, …} have the same size even though it might intuitively seem that one should be bigger. Sure, you can try the pairing
0↔???  
1↔1  
2↔2  
⋮  
and conclude that the former set must be bigger since 0 went unpaired, but you can also easily find a pairing which works:  
0↔1  
1↔2  
2↔3  
⋮  
So the two sets are of the same cardinality. This is an important concept. A failed attempt to pair things up doesn't really prove anything, but once you've found one single pairing, you know that two sets have the same size. (As an aside, this "can be paired" oddity is related to why ordinality and cardinality can't be treated on equal footing for infinite sets.)

Of the sets I listed above, all but one actually have the same size. The cardinality of the natural numbers is the same as the cardinality of all the integers, which is the same as the cardinality of the rational numbers.  
\#**N** = \#**Z** = \#**Q**.  
The cardinality of the real numbers is, however, larger than that of these other sets:  
\#**R**  >  \#**N**  
This might seem surprising, and I won't go into why (I have [in the past](_URL_0_) however), but it's true.

#Sets of sets
Now, it's time for the final piece of the puzzle: sets of sets. This is really the reason for why sets are so important in mathematics. You can treat a set as its own object, which in particular means you can use sets as elements in other sets. This might seem strange, but it's really no different to a box containing another box. So for instance {1, 2} is not the same set as {{1, 2}}, and neither of those are the same set as {1, {2}}. This is completely analogous to how a box containing a hat and a banana isn't the same as a box containing a box containing a hat and a banana, neither of which is the same as a box containing a hat and a box containing a banana.

If you have the set {1, 2, 3}, all the sets you can form from elements in this set are  
{}, {1}, {2}, {3}, {1, 2}, {1, 3}, {2, 3}, {1, 2, 3}.  
These sets are called *subsets* of the original set. The set of all subsets of a set is called the *power set* of that set. For example, the power set of {1, 2, 3} is {{}, {1}, {2}, {3}, {1, 2}, {1, 3}, {2, 3}, {1, 2, 3}}. You might notice that if a set has size *n*, then its power set must have size 2^*n*. This is because if you add an element to a set, you double the number of subsets (you can either include the new element in a subset or you can not). So a set always has smaller cardinality than its power set, and this fact also holds for infinite sets. There's no way to pair up all the natural numbers with all the possible sets of natural numbers.

#The continuum hypothesis
At this point, you actually know everything to understand the continuum hypothesis properly. Its statement is:

**The continuum hypothesis:** There is no set with a cardinality bigger than that of the integers and simultaneously smaller than that of the power set of the integers.

It's possible to prove that the power set of the integers has the same cardinality as the set of all real numbers, so an equivalent statement is:

**The continuum hypothesis (version 2):** There is no set with a cardinality bigger than that of the integers and simultaneously smaller than that of the real numbers.

Just like there are names for the finite cardinalities (0, 1, 2, 3, …), there are actually names for the infinite ones. For instance ℵ₀ – pronounced aleph-naught after the Hebrew letter ℵ – is the smallest cardinal number. The second smallest cardinal number is ℵ₁ (aleph-one). With this notation, the continuum hypothesis can be stated:

**The continuum hypothesis (version 3):** 2^(ℵ₀) = ℵ₁.

That's it!

Question: Why is gold worth so much?
Answer: For most of history, gold was the densest substance known.  So when it came to making money, gold was the natural choice.  Anything you might try to adulterate a gold coin with would make it lighter, so you could instantly know it was a fake just by weighing it.  Gold provided a degree of security that no other metal could match.

Question: Why do we lose balance when we're standing on something compared to just standing on the floor
Answer: Your balance can be affected by many senses. You do use your eyesight in part when trying to balance. Just seeing that you are on an object will have you subconsciously determine that you need to focus on balancing which can throw you off.

Question: Why are Swiss bank accounts always mentioned when pursuing (in movies and in real life) supposedly corrupt individuals? Why are they usually tied in with large amounts of money that has been illegally obtained? Why are they the rich, corrupt individuals bank of choice?
Answer: Laws in Switzerland mean banks do not have to give personal information to police or government upon request. So a lot of criminals put their illegally made money into a Swiss bank account knowing the Police will never be able to find out who owns the account or how much money is in it or where the money came from. It's a way of cutting off the paper trail without storing it all in cash

Question: I'm sufffering, first world drama style, from the common cold. Please ELI5 the epic battle between the virus and my immune system.
Answer: First, the virus enters the cells in your body. Then it uses all the machinery in the cell to make more viruses. Then it pops the cell to release all the new viruses. This is not healthy. ~~Rinse and~~ repeat.

At some point your body realizes this is happening. Its usual response is to raise your temperature, giving you a fever. This has two uses:

* Makes your body a terrible place for viruses. They hate the heat (seriously).

* Increases your body's production of the things that fight the virus, due to... an explanation that goes beyond ELI5.

Anyway, other signs of infection like muscle pain, vomiting, headaches, diarrhea etc. etc. are all caused by either the the virus destroying your cells or are a side result of your body destroying the virus.

Question: I have $20 to spend this month of food, can I get the proper nutrition?
Answer: This has been deleted because it is not asking for a concept to be explained. I'd recommend /r/frugal for this question, but r/answers or /r/askreddit may be able to help too. Thanks.

Question: Why does nearly everyone hate the sound of their own voice when they hear it?
Answer: Sorry mate but:

_URL_0_

Don't want be a jerk but I kinda posted it earlier. And by the looks of it you reposted it. No offense though.

Question: How to ophthalmic emulsifiers work?
Answer: If you leave a bowl of water on your kitchen counter for a few days it will dry up (water evaporation). Similarly, your eyes will dry up faster if you only had water on them. To prevent that, your eyes has a thin layer of lipids (like oil) that reduces water evaporation. Certain eyedrops (refresh endura, systane balance, etc.) have emulsifiers that helps stabilise the fatty layer to reduce evaporation/dryness.

Question: Why does the U.S. support a dictatorial government in Yemen (a country under sharia law), denouncing the rebels, but has the exact opposite stance in Syria?
Answer: Because every geopolitical move America makes is based on either money, or power. Ideals dont even factor. If your totalitarian dictator supports American hegemony, he will get weapons and support, if your democratically elected secular government challenges us or sides with a rival, all of a sudden rebel separatist forces will get mysterious influx of money and guns and will destabilize your region/overthrow your leaders, and everything in between.

Question: Moore's Law - Does computing power really double every 18 months? Will this ever plateau out?
Answer: "Moore's Law" is actually just an observation of a historical trend - the *density of transistors* tends to grow exponentially, doubling every 18 months.  This tends to translate to more transistors and, when coupled with improvements in clock speeds, lead to exponential increases in CPU power throughout the 80s, 90s  &  2000s.

Clock speeds, however, have largely plateaued.  Intel was shipping 3.8GHz Pentium 4 CPUs back in 2005 - their fastest chip today is only clocked at 4.2GHz.  This means that the last few generations of CPUs have not made significant improvements in processing power from one release to the next.  When Intel released their most recent "Kaby Lake" processors, many people were *really* disappointed that it showed a minimal performance improvement over the previous "Sky Lake" release.

For things like rendering CG for movies, the performance of CPUs isn't really such a limiting factor.  With larger  &  larger budgets for CG and special effects, we just keep building larger render farms  &  throwing GPUs at the problem.

Question: If a person was shrunk down to fit in the palm of one's hand, would their voice become high-pitched like in it does in movies?
Answer: I would imagine so. Itty bitty vocal folds and all that.

To quote from [Wikipedia](_URL_0_):

 The perceived pitch of a person's voice is determined by a number of different factors, most importantly the fundamental frequency of the sound generated by the larynx. The fundamental frequency is influenced by the ***length, size, and tension of the vocal folds.*** This frequency averages about 125 Hz in an adult male, 210 Hz in adult females, and over 300 Hz in children.

Question: What's the difference between a battery pack in series and a battery pack in parallel?( Please forgive my stupidity)
Answer: A cell has 2 properties, voltage and current. 

Having multiple cells in series increases the voltage provided by the battery but doesn't effect the current. 

Having multiple cells in parallel increases the current provided by the battery but doesn't change the voltage.

Question: Why are personal aircraft so expensive? Is it parts/construction or is it because it's a luxury item?
Answer: A few reasons, the main one being FAA certification and relatively low volume.  Similar to like how all cars must be crash tested on the road and how safety items on your car must have NHTSA certification all the expensive parts of an airplane who's failure could lead to a crash require FAA certification.  This is one of the aviation industry's biggest complaints; FAA certification holds back technological advances.  Most general aviation aircraft (what most people think of when you say Cessna) are flying with 50 year old engine designs and manual control.  We can't get modern fuel injection or ignition systems because no one wants to spend time to develop a new system and pay hundreds of thousands for FAA certification.

The other part is maintenance, it's like owning a Ferrari.  There's lots of scheduled maintenance that needs to be done

Question: How is PewDiePie so widely popular, despite many people claiming to hate him?
Answer: He appeals mostly to a younger demographic than you probably associate with.  There are a fuckton of 13 year olds on Earth so Pewdiepie can have huge viewership while still being hated by everyone over 21 (which isn't even the case).

Question: Kidney stones and how to avoid them.
Answer: Kidney stones can be caused from a variety of factors including genetic disorders, infections, electrolyte imbalance, medications, pregnancy etc.

But the most common kidney stone is created from calcium oxalate. This occurs when a high amount of calcium and oxalate are secreted by the kidneys into the urinary system, causing it to fall out of solution and crystallize causing...ouch.

The best method to avoid kidney stones in the average patient is adequate hydration. The more water that goes through the urinary system, the less likely calcium oxalate is to fall out of solution and crystallize.

Other methods are to avoid calcium/oxalate supplements, be wary of medications that cause increased excretion of calcium (e.g. lasix) and treat urinary tract infections.

Question: Why do a lot of the elderly wear pastel/beige colours ?
Answer: The elderly generally aren't clothes-horses like us when we are younger because they don't have to go to work or social events every day. So they generally have less selection in their clothes.

Pastels and beiges are a somewhat bright and cheery and clean-looking but not over-the-top way of comfortably dressing day after day for just about every informal occasion. When you don't have, need or want a thousand outfits, those colours are good choices for most occasions, particularly in places that they like to retire to where there's warmer and sunnier weather and where dark colours would be a lot hotter.

Question: Why do we grab our heads when something goes wrong?
Answer: It's body language. It's the same reason you may cross your arms when angry or scratch your chin when in deep thought. Humans move their bodies when communicating because it helps "ease the mental effort when communication is difficult", but I don't have a source for that. 

In fact, there are even some that say a majority of our communication is non-verbal. That is we put more weight on subtle facial expressions or hand gestures than we do language. 

Note: Sorry I'm on my phone and can't really find you a good source, but just Google body language, non-verbal communication or Kinesics.

Question: How can Disney celebrate 100 years of magic if the company started in 1923?
Answer: Fun answer:  Because magic.
 
Real answer: [Because they started celebrating in 2001.](_URL_0_)
 
Ain't no party like a Disney party, because a Disney party is contractually obligated to never end.

Question: Why are humans completely dependent on their guardians for so long?
Answer: If evolution could, it would have. However, nothing is free and when our ancestors evolved to have larger brains, sacrifices had to be made as life does not have unlimited resources to work with. 
Humans are born relatively under developed as our brains required more room, but our way of life meant that we walked upright so the womans pelvis isn't suited for giving birth to large offspring.

We're not alone in this either. You pick a choice few animals in your examples, but there are plenty others such as rodents, birds, cats and dogs are born helpless too. 
The difference here is that these animals tend to have a home, be it a nest or a den where the parents live. Herd animals need to stay with the pack because they don't stay in one place for too long. Hence evolution required things like sheep, horses and cows to have young that would keep up.

When the parents live in one place for extended periods of time, the pressure for the young then is not as severe which allows for other compromises. 

In short, there is no evolutionary pressure to humans to have early developing children as we're more than capable of rearing them for the 20 odd years it takes us to grow fully. As pack animals, there would have always been assigned roles for hunting and gathering supplies which would mean that young children would not have to do these things themselves. This in turn allows for longer playing and learning, increasing the intelligence of the individual as their early days can be focused on these things, instead on pure survival instincts. 

It is both unnecessary and a disadvantage for humans to have fast developing young.

Question: Why do dogs use their back foot to scratch their ear instead of their front foot?
Answer: Several reasons:

Torque. Back legs on quadrupedal animals like dogs are very strong, as they're used to push off during a sprint. The back leg can scratch harder than front legs. 

Angle. Most dogs can barely get their front paws over their snout, making putting them places like behind their head out of the question. The back legs, on the other hand, can scratch far more areas, at least on the front half of the body. For the bottom half, dogs bite. 

Quadrapeds! Unlike humans, dogs aren't particularly dexterous with their front paws. They don't have fingers or thumbs like we do, so there tends to be less of a preference for using their front paws unless they really need them. You're thinking of this from the perspective of a 5 year old human who uses his or her hands for everything and generally only uses feet for walking. Dogs walk and are mostly equally dexterous with all four paws.

Question: what's the deal with the Holy trinity? Why is it still monotheistic?
Answer: The Trinity distinguishes between persons and beings, or in layman terms one what and three who's.

God is one what (being) with three who's (persons). Each person is 100% God, co-equal (of equal power) and co-eternal (having existed forever). One person is not 1/3 of God because God is infinite and it is impossible to divide infinity into 3.

The three persons are the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. The Father is unseen in heaven, the Son is the image of the Father, and the Holy Spirit works among believers.

There is no appropriate analogy because God is unique and thus there is nothing in creation which can accurately describe him.

Question: Why is it that in the 1900s and up into the early 2000s there were a lot of bands that were "number one" for years at a time but now there are seemingly more one hit wonders.
Answer: I love this question. It's common and is a great example of people asking the WRONG question. Bare with me while we "tumble down the rabbit hole"

What if I told you most of the iconic singers and bands of the previous century never actually topped any charts.

Let's use the beatles, as you brought them up. One of my favourite songs would definitely be "don't let me down" - which came out in 1973. So lets go have a look at the music charts from [1973] (_URL_0_) and see how high they got.

Huh. It's not there. In fact of all of these songs I only barely know the jim croce one. Why is that? Ok what about "yellow submarine". That's a classic from [1966] (_URL_1_). Oop, and look at that, it's at 93. Now granted there's a few beatles songs on this one, but none are number 1.

Go ahead, try it yourself. Look up some off the iconic songs - It's not just the beatles.

**SO** the wrong question to ask is "why is music now less good". The *right* question to ask is, why don't we remember all these other bands on the 1966 charts?

because they were bad. because they were one hit wonders. because in the moment they were catchy, but they had no substance.

So eventually you forget about them, and you only remember the greats. The beatles, the pink floyds, the hendrix's, the marleys.

And that's what will happen again. Right now, in the thick of it, you are overwhelmed with trash - but in a couple decades people will forget about all the one hit wonders, and they will remember the gold.
And they will sit there and say "why was music in the 2010's so good", and you will remind them it wasn't.

Question: Why is black and white considered as "no color"?
Answer: Cameras were not filming in the black and white colors, they where basically filming the absence or presence of light.

No color could be said as no definable color, as in it shows all or none of the colors, but not a distinctive color from the light spectrum.

Question: Why does Universal Studios theme parks have "The Wizarding World of Harry Potter" when Harry Potter is produced by Warner Brothers? What kind of deals had to happen here to deal with trademarks etc?
Answer: WB owns the film rights. The IP belongs to JK Rowling. Rowling originally went to Disney to add the Harry Potter park to Disney's parks. But Disney didn't want to give Rowling as much say in the park creation as she wanted. Universal did, so they got the park.

Question: Why is it so easy to fall asleep in upright position in a brightly lit lecture hall?
Answer: Going because you have to as opposed to wanting to / Hungover / Sleep deprived / Droning voice going on and on and on / Uninteresting subject

pick and choose out of any of those. It's possible to sleep in an upright position in almost any circumstance. Just don't fall asleep resting on your raised arm/hand. Bad stuff can happen if you do that.

Question: How is MERS spread, why should we be worried about it, and how can we prevent ourselves from contacting it?
Answer: I'm coming bback to Korea in August and i've been hearing about the MERS thing. Made me a wee bit nervous

Question: What does it really mean when a famous person/public figure gets an "honorary doctorate?" Is it actually worth anything, or just a kind gesture?
Answer: It's only meant to be a gesture. Universities generally note that the recipient can add the letters after their name, but should not use the title Dr. except in interactions with the school that granted the degree. Most honorary degrees are specially titled along the lines of LL.D (Doctor of Laws) or Sc.D. (Doctor of Science) so as to avoid confusion with an earned degree (Ph.D, J.D., M.D., and so on.)

So:

* John Smith, who studied music composition at a university and got a high-level degree, becomes Dr. Smith or John Smith, D.M.A (Doctor of Musical Arts.)
* Jane Doe, who studied music theory at the same university, becomes Dr. Doe or Jane Doe, Ph.D
* Edward Kennedy Ellington, who did not study music formally but made enormous contributions to the field, was awarded several honorary doctorates, and became Edward Kennedy Ellington, D. Mus, but not Dr. Ellington. His title of "Duke" is arguably honorary, but I would consider it more meaningful than any title of nobility.

Question: Hypothetically speaking, what would happen if nobody voted this election?
Answer: Then democracy would lose. If the public was able to send a message that strong to the government then I think they'd focus on reforming our political system.

Or Donald Trump would just buy his way into office.

Question: Why don't downloaded games, burnt to DVDs work on the Xbox 360 etc?
Answer: Xbox games have a special key and protection mechanism burnt onto the discs that only the xbox disc drive can unlock.

A random burnt dvd will not pass this test.

**ELI5**: Xbox does a handshake with the disc before it will load a game.

Question: How do you Depressurize a compartment, say you're in space and you want to go outside without losing all your precious air.
Answer: You suit up enter the air lock seal it, then you pump the air that's in the airlock into a tank so you're in vacuum, then you open the outer doors. Once you are back from spacewalk, seal outer door. Slowly empty holding tank to repressurize the air lock, the open inner door.

Question: in regards to Pluto, what is an "active surface"?
Answer: If you think about the moon, it has no geological activity. There aren't volcanoes that reshape the surface and there's no real atmosphere that is capable of depositing/moving materials around the surface. The moon doesn't really change or go through any sort of cycles like seasons. The moon is not dynamic. It doesn't have an active surface.

The 8 planets, by contrast, have all sorts of things like weather and (for many) tectonic activity driven by internal heat. These bodies have changing surfaces that are frequently reshaped by processes on the planet. They are dynamic. They have active surfaces.

It's been known for a long time that Pluto is dynamic. It's actually been changing color since the 80's, indicating that some sort of process is going on that is changing what is on the surface. For a small body like pluto, this wasn't a sure thing and was kind of surprising. Given the distance, we didn't know exactly what was going on on Pluto. New Horizons gives us a chance to observe more closely.

It seems that Charon, Pluto's largest moon, is also dynamic (though less so than Pluto).

Question: Why is Ireland not united? And do most Irish want it to be?
Answer: There has been about 100 years of fighting over this very question.

Very simplified history here: 

Northern Ireland was created in 1921 after an uprising of Irish Republicans lead to a peace treaty between Ireland and the UK which partitioned the country between the Irish Free State (later the Republic of Ireland) which was mostly Catholic and Northern Ireland, which is made up of 6 or the 9 counties of Ulster, and has a majority Protestant population loyal to Britain.

In Northern Ireland there is also a large Catholic population that has been historically oppressed and identify themselves as Irish and not British (as the protestants do).  This sectarian divide is typically described as Nationalist/Republican for the Catholic and Loyalist/Unionist for the protestants.

Through much of the 70's and into the 90's there were wide ranging conflicts between these two groups which are known as the troubles.  This is where the traditional image of the IRA, amongst other paramilitary groups comes from, though the IRA has been around in multiple different forms since the uprising that lead to the creation of the Free State.

In 1994, the Provisional IRA issued a cease fire, and  in 1998, the Good Friday Agreement was signed, that ostensibly ended the troubles (for the most part).  However, there have been instances were splinter groups have disregarded the cease fires (the Omagh bombing for one), but for the most part the major conflicts of the Troubles are in the past.  Though there is still some sectarian uprisings traditionally coinciding with the Protestant Marching Season and a recent uproar over the flying of the Irish flag over official buildings (the Union Jack is also still flown).


For you other questions, traditionally the majority of the people of Northern Ireland have wished to remain as part of the UK, though again much of this support comes from the protestant majority, though in recent polls, even a large number of Catholics wish to remain, which could be a result of the recent economic troubles in the Republic.  The UK certainly doesn't keep NI for tax purposes as it typically costs the UK far more than it generates in tax income, as unemployment is pretty high.

Question: Why does the game show Jeopardy require the answer in the form of a question when the game show is clearly concerned about the factual knowledge?
Answer: It dates back to the quiz show scandals that had rocked the game show world previously (the shows had been picking charismatic winners by feeding favorable candidates the answers).  This was a big enough scandal that TV executives were subject to Congressional hearings and very embarrassing.   Jeopardy was the first attempt to do a trivia game show after those scandals.  To help separate Jeopardy from those scandals, the producers used the format to pitch the show as giving everyone the answers, but the contestants must give us the questions.

Question: how does pumping your legs on a swing help build momentum?
Answer: The reason why you pump your legs delves very deep into several areas of physics, which makes it all the more amazing that little kids use this trick seemingly intuitive.

To preface, it's not _only_ the leg pumping that gets you higher on the swing. You pump your legs forward _and_ move your upper body backwards. This achives two things which will become important later on.

So, your ride on the swing is governed by two rules, gravity and your potential energy

    E=mgh, h is the height above ground

it wants to pull you down. The second rule is inertia and  kinetic energy

    E=mv²/2, v is your velocity

it wants you to travel in a straight line. 

During the ride, both types of energy are constantly changing into one another. For example, at the highest point your total energy is all potential energy (because h is big and v is zero, as you're not moving). At the lowest point all your potential energy gets converted to kinetic energy. That's why you're going fastest at the lowest point. I'm sure you get the idea.

What's important to note is that while both types of energy will vary over time, your total energy stays exactly _the same_. This is what energy conservation is all about. 

It also tells you that in theory, if you start swinging from a given height you will never be able to surpass that height, which results in a very boring swing ride if you start from the ground.

This is where the trick from earlier comes into play. 

We've established that the only way you can go higher on the swing is by getting more energy to work with, so how exactly do you gain energy by merely pushing your upper body backwards?

By laying flat, you are pulling on the chain of the swing, so that your body is a little higher off the ground ([like this](_URL_0_)). That way, you have more potential energy than normal in the lowest position (because h is bigger) and have thus gained a little bit of energy, allowing you to go higher.

Essentially, you're allowing your body to fall down for longer and are getting faster in return.

Now, you might wonder if all we care about is getting our body as high off the ground as possible, then why do we tilt our upper body _downwards_?

This is where another important principle in physics comes into play, conservation of angular momentum.

For the sake of simplicity I'm not going to go into heavy detail about what exactly that is, but the gist of it is that if something is spinning (or not spinning) it will want to stay spinning (or not spinning).

If you look at the swing from the side again, you will see that pulling your upper body backwards and pumping your legs upwards essentially means you're rotating your body clockwise. 

Now, the whole system (you and the swing) started out _not_ spinning. That means something other than you has to spin _anti-clockwise_ to account for your clockwise spinning. 

And you guessed it, the swing is getting a little kick in the anti-clockwise direction. Causing you to go even faster and having the time of your life.

EDIT: Fixed an explanation

Question: Why people are so upset that Ford is switching the body material of the F-150 to aluminum from steel
Answer: Ford is using high strength aluminum alloys and not just aluminum for their trucks.  Competitors will muddy the waters by leaving it at "aluminum" to claim strength superiority over Ford in the consumers eyes.  These alloys can be stronger and more durable than their steel counterparts in the automotive industry as well as having greater corrosion resistance compared to steel, all in a lighter material.  In fact, there are many companies currently using aluminum in their body construction, Ford is just the first to use it so widely on a pickup truck.  
  
Ford is also using more high strength boron steel for their frames and pillars than before.  This also equates to a lighter, but stronger truck.  All of this is at a great cost and initial investment by Ford.  I believe I read somewhere that it is the second largest aluminum contract in America.  While the competition will try and use the "weak" perception of aluminum against Ford, in the coming years, they will also start to adopt the very same strategy as they try to conform to CAFE regulations and standards.

Question: How can YouTube channels that post music, make money by posting someone else's song on their channel?
Answer: Maybe : 

 - they asked for permission.
 - they take down the video if the author ask.
 - they are sharing the money with the author.
 - the author doesn't care. Free advertisement.

Could be any of those.

Question: Why is Random Number Generation so important for IT security?
Answer: I'm thinking of an ATM PIN. What number am I thinking of? 

If you can guess it, you can access my checking account. It's like guessing a password. If I use a system to generate my ATM PIN that seems random, but can actually be reproduced (like taking my birthday and scrambling the order of the digits), someone could figure out the system I use to generate PINs and guess only a few times before discovering it. 

Randomly generated passwords are related to randomly generated numbers. Computers generate pseudorandom numbers with a lazy function called Rand() or something like it that use the time that the function is called to generate a number. This is like creating an ATM PIN with your birthday. It can be guessed if you know enough of the other pseudorandom numbers the system generated. 

Even perfect security - like one time pads - rely on truly randomly generated passcodes. If the code isn't randomly generated, nothing is secure.

Question: Leverage (in regards to finance)
Answer: Leverage is borrowing money.  Borrowed money in finance is normally used to put it to more productive uses (profit, in part, comes from the difference in returns between what you used the borrowed money to produce and the cost of borrowing it).  

More leverage means more profits (but also more risk that a change in the value of your assets will make your firm worth less than it owes).  

A simple example is perhaps there exists a city with no hot dog stands.  Each hot dog stand license costs $500,000 and earns $1,000 per week.  If an investor has $500,000 he could of course get one license and make $1,000 or he could borrow $2 million (at 6%) and get 5 licenses (his earnings would be $2700 per week after paying the interest).  If the city later reduces the license fee to $400,000 in the first case, he's lost $100,000, but in the second case, he's lost all of his investment (his five licenses are worth exactly what he's borrowed).

Question: Why does listening to your favorite song over and over eventually make you hate it?
Answer: Music is art. And one of the things that make art so relevant and great is the element of surprise. Everyone likes a little surprise in their music. So the more predictable (or memorized), the less you can experience the joy of this element of surprise.

Question: Why are humans attracted to the foreign?
Answer: Biologically, animals are attracted to members outside their clan to increase their gene diversity.  It decreases the odds that your children would be born with 2 recessive genes for any trait.  If humans didn't keep records or strong family ties, and you just met the cute girl down the street that looks similar to you, how would you be sure she wasn't your second cousin?

Question: Pressurized staircase in hotel?
Answer: It means that fan pumps air into the stairwell.  This is a fire evacuation safety measure, so that if you open the door from your burning corridor into the stairwell, the positive air pressure will push the smoke back allowing you to escape and close the door.  It means that holding the door open will cause people's lives to be lost, and the sign is supposed to be telling you not to do that.

Question: So how do you actually "live off the interest" if you come across a large sum of money or win the lottery?
Answer: >  Do you just hire a financial advisor or go to an investment bank and assume your tons of money will grow steadily over time?

Most people would do this, yes.

Question: How coding differs in asia (using characters and reading top-down
Answer: Programming languages are usually not localized. That is, someone writing code in Java will write the same words in the same direction no matter what human language they may speak. 

Even computing languages developed in Asia (like Ruby) typically follow Western conventions of characters and word orientation.

Question: Why are a lot of people scared of dolls/mannequins, or other humanoid-shaped things?
Answer: For dolls/mannequins, it is called the uncanny valley. Basically, everything that tries to emulate a human being will have its flaws look monstrous to some people.

Question: Why does a headache disappear after like 3 hours of sleep but it doesn't when you are 3 hours awake?
Answer: Headaches have a myriad of different causes. Some are related to the food you've eaten, or something you have had to drink.

Some headaches are caused due to constriction of blood vessels which can cause a headache to get more acute when walking around due to an elevated blood pressure.

When you sleep, your body relaxes and your blood pressure is lessened which will cause some headaches to lessen.

If a headache is caused by dehydration, the body will attempt to alleviate the defecit by drawing water from tissues that store it which can occur at a faster rate when the body is at rest.

Question: Why do engineers use I-beams when the triangle is the strongest shape.
Answer: I-beams are intended to span between columns, so they specifically need to be optimised to handle *bending*. When a beam (any beam) is loaded, it bends in the middle, and its internal stress varies between max tension at the bottom and max compression at the top. It turns out that the most efficient way of handling that is to have essentially all the steel at the top and bottom, and reduce the webbing (the bit in between) to the minimum necessary to hold it together. If the webbing is overstressed, it gives a little and transfers the stress to the top or bottom anyway.

Question: How can an odor be contained?
Answer: An odor is a series of particles dispersed in the air that land in your nose and dissolve on your epithelium in your nose, which then signals the brain about what just dissolved on it, which is what we perceive as smells. 

So, anything that can contain particles dispersed in air can contain an odor. It would have to be an airtight, imoermwable container.

Question: Lots of ads these days about America's cell phone networks/wireless internet. What's the best one now? Tomorrow? Next year?
Answer: I personally like the info provided via Consumer Reports.  I'm not sure they can provide the forward-looking info you want, but they do a decent job of ranking each provider within key cities and talking about throughput.

They also provide info such as buying guides for free, but you'll have to pay to see some of the detailed info.

Question: Why do many pictures from the black and white era look high definition?
Answer: Because they're analog, and not taken by a crappy cell phone camera. Actual, real, photographic film is as high a definition as it gets.

Question: How does laser eye surgery work?
Answer: Laser eye surgery cuts a small flap of your cornea to start. Then, ultraviolet light is used to reshape the inner surface of the cornea, correcting the curvature. The result allows the image to be correctly focused on the retina.

[Souce](_URL_0_)

Question: How do homeless people survive snowy winters?
Answer: In many areas, homeless shelters and other charitable organizations open more beds in the winter time. Some may "fly south." Any form of shelter, even unheated, can provide relief from winter weather; many will squat in abandoned buildings. Also, just because a person is homeless doesn't mean they are without heavy clothing or well-made sleeping bags, many of which are designed for use in sub-zero conditions.

Truthfully, snowy winters are easier to survive than low-precipitation winters, because snow itself can serve as insulation from winter weather.

Question: why do you get nightmares when you're feet are uncovered?
Answer: This sounds very much like confirmation bias. Unless you can provide some evidence that this phenomena exists, it would be hard to explain it.

Question: how long would it take to breed a almost truly intelligent animal?
Answer: Actually a lot of dogs are smarter than wolves.

But when we breed animals we're usually not aiming for intelligence. Smarter things are cool and all but they're smart - they need intellectual stimulation, they break shit and mess around and don't listen to you and manipulate you because they're smart and it's beneficial.

We have dumb lazy couch potato dogs and smart dogs who need extensive training not to screw around.

Question: Please explain Major League Baseball trades, waivers, free agency, arbitration, etc. LI5
Answer: **Trades**- Usually fairly simple, I give you Player X and you give me Player Y. However, there are cases where a really good player is traded for prospects, or young players who could potentially develop into superstar players (but can often times be hit or miss). Sometimes, salaries come into play. If Player X makes $5 million over the course of a season, Team 1 can agree to pay the rest of that salary, or ask Team 2 to pay the remainder. This is usually negotiated, depending on the amount.

**Waivers**- (This is a bit complicated; I'll try my best) After July 31, all players whose teams want to trade them must do what is called "clearing waivers." When players are "put" on waivers, it means that teams have a chance to "claim" them, or try and trade for them. But there's an order to this claiming process, determined by record, with the team with the worst record getting the first chance to put out a claim on a player. When a team "claims" a player, it means that they have a period of time in which to negotiate with the player's team about trading for him. A few things can happen: The player's team can "withdraw" the player from waivers if they don't wish to trade with the team that made the claim. If this happens, players can no longer be placed back on waivers at all, and thus must remain with their team for the remainder of the season. An alternative is that the player that is claimed is simply given to the other team, but that team will have to pay the rest of his salary. If a player manages to "clear waivers," it means no team put out a claim for him to try and trade for him. His team is then free to trade him to whatever team they want. Players usually choose new teams to play for during the off-season.

The reason the July 31 non-waiver deadline is so big is because it can be difficult for players to clear waivers. If Team 1 wants to trade Player A to get a better player, Team 2 (a rival to Team 1) might put out a waiver claim that'll force Team 1 to withdraw the claim and hold onto the player, thus not be able to get a better player.

**Free Agency**- Usually after a few years of playing baseball, you get the chance to play with any team you want, assuming they want you to play for them, for any amount of money. Before that, you have to go through **arbitration**, where your salary must fit within a predetermined scale, based on your performance. So players who play very well get the same X amount of money, while so-so players get the same Y amount. These are usually are one-year contracts, but don't allow players to sign with any team they want, only the team they played for last year.

The significance of free agency and trade talk has to do with whether players are in the final year of their contracts. If your team has a good player but the team is having a bad season, or can't pay a lot of money to players, then it's better to trade that player to another team with a better record in return for prospects in order to do better in the future.

Does that cover everything you wanted to know?

Question: What does it mean to be a "4th Alarm Fire"?
Answer: In general,  these are multi-alarms... 1 though 5.  You are correct in that they are an increasing level of manpower and equipment as the level increases.  How much per level would vary by the city involved.   There is no fixed set of people or equipment per level, but you will see more specialized equipment and more senior personnel at each level.

Question: Why did the ruins of Rome and Greece become "ruins"?
Answer: Long term exposure to the elements with no one repairing the structure and in some cases people actually breaking up and taking stone away for building materials.

Question: What is Fantasy Football and how does it work?
Answer: It's a (seconardy) game that piggybacks off of the actual NFL games.

A bunch of people get together, and "draft" their prefered players, from anywhere in the league.  When the real teams play, the 'drafted' players points are tallied, like how many yards did they run, how many touchdowns did that player make or throw.  Those tallies are weighted, so that touchdown catches are worth more than running yards, then the weighted points of various football actions are added together and a score results.

Compare scores to the other fantasy participants, and wallah you have a fantasy football game.

Question: What is that strange feeling of numbness we get when we wake up in the middle of the night?
Answer: Yer probably describin' the physical consequences of *sleep paralysis.*

Yarr! Yer not alone in askin', and kind strangers have explained:

1. [ELI5: Sleep Paralysis ](_URL_6_)
1. [ELI5: Sleep paralysis and why it happens. ](_URL_5_)
1. [ELI5: Sleep Paralysis ](_URL_7_)
1. [ELI5: Sleep paralysis? ](_URL_2_)
1. [ELI5: How does sleep paralysis work and why does it happen? ](_URL_4_)
1. [ELI5: Sleep paralysis ](_URL_0_)
1. [ELI5: What happens during sleep paralysis? ](_URL_1_)
1. [ELI5: What does Sleep paralysis feel like? What happens during it? ](_URL_3_)

Question: why all the big leaks, even from 2016, look like they have been typed on a typewriter? Surely in this day and age, there must be more modern font than a typewriter.
Answer: It's because they use a monospace font. That means every letter takes up the same amount of space (instead of "l" taking up less room than "W"). The emails were not sent in that font. The text was extracted and styled with that font.

Question: How do blind people dream?
Answer: In the case of people who are born blind, they just dream as they see the world normally. So they just dream in terms of sounds, touch, and smells. How people dream is based on the maximum sight they had, for example if someone has bad eyesight or goes blind later in life, but they did have normal eyesight at some point, their dreams will be in normal eyesight.

Question: How the Skarp Razor works, when they aren't actually burning the hair?
Answer: The general consensus is that it's faked, and the video uses a nichrome wire to try to fake it. Here's an article about it on a website that I read that has some stuff about it, especially in the comment section _URL_0_

Question: why do we usually say "ow" when we hurt ourselves?
Answer: Short answer is both social conditioning (we grew up hearing other people saying it, so we mimic it) as well as vocalizations actually helping to reduce pain. Studies have shown that verbal expressions, especially swearing, actually reduce pain.

Question: What is a Sociopath?
Answer: When a non-doctor calls a person a sociopath, what they generally mean is that the person in question has no empathy. What *this* means is that the way they respond to the emotional states of those around them is messed up, or non-existent.

By this definition if Bob is a sociopath, then seeing Laura in pain, or sad, or grieving will either make Bob feel good, or it won't make Bob feel anything at all.

Now, if a doctor were to say that Jim was a sociopath, this would be a bit different. Medically speaking, there are a whole host of various criteria necessary to call someone a sociopath. Strictly speaking, they wouldn't be called one; the correct name for the disorder is AntiSocial Personality Disorder.

Someone with ASPD is likely to be manipulative, unconcerned with the feelings of others, uncaring of social rules and norms, unable to maintain long-term relationships, prone to blaming others for their own failings, are likely to become violent more quickly for things which don't warrant it.

It's a really hard condition to summarise, but in a few words, sociopaths are people who never stopped being a child, emotionally.

Seriously, kids are horrible monsters who only get away with it because they generally grow out of being horrible monsters while they're still cute.

Question: Would a cell phone work in space?
Answer: The main problem would be heat. Cell phones passively cool themselves via the air, but there's a distinct lack of air in space, so despite the near 0C temperatures in space, without a way to get rid of heat (apart from blackbody radiation), the phone would overheat.

If you could cool it, then it should function.

Question: What would the process be for Ukraine to join Nato and how likely is it at this point?
Answer: Interesting question here. I am currently living in the Republic of Georgia, and I can tell you that for a country to join NATO, the process is quite extensive. 

First, they spend years of sending NATO verification officers to the country. These people inspect everything dealing with any sort of human rights. Prisons, orphanages, hospitals, elections, etc. They also inspect the military and their training. 

After years of this, they then vote whether or not to offer the NATO Membership Application Plan to the country... often referred to as MAP. 

This is a step closer, but means even more scrutiny under NATO officials. They do the same as before, but I believe they write it all up into some sort of report which is ultimately presented to the NATO members. The NATO members then vote on whether or not to accept the country.

The main reason Georgia has not been accepted is due to the fact that Russia occupies Georgian territory in Ossetia and Abkhazia. This means that if NATO accepts Georgia, they will be expected to help Georgia push the Russians out.

Putin recognizes this fact, and that is why he annexed Crimea and is attempting to occupy more territory in Ukraine. Keep in mind, he vowed never to allow a NATO country to border Russia, and he considers the collapse of the USSR as the greatest tragedy of the 20th century. Obviously he doesn't give a damn about the holocaust and WWII. But that's a whole another subject.

I hope this answer helped, even if it is not from a Ukrainian point of view.

Edit: My first gold! YAY!

Question: The current stock market situation and crash.
Answer: [This is a long overdue correction, IMO. If you look at a chart over decades rather than the last week or month or year, you will see nothing out of the ordinary. Click "max" and look at that chart. You will see that the stock market is doing quite well, thank you.](_URL_0_{"range":"max","allowChartStacking":true})

Question: Why isn't it possible to construct an angle trisector?
Answer: [The full proof](_URL_0_) is pretty complicated, but it really boils down to the fact that just an unmarked straightedge and compass can't "solve" the equation necessary to produce a trisection of an angle.

Use a *marked* straightedge, and you can do it.

Question: Why do we remember real life experiences so much better than we remember dreams?
Answer: Dreams are a side-effect of your brain sorting through memories. Some of that 'bleeds out' and we remember that (or not) as dreams. 

They're not something that's meant to be remembered.

Question: How come all the satellites around the earth don't collide?
Answer: its really very simple the majority don't collide because they never cross paths. There are not a lot of satellites for the amount of space they take up and for two to collide they would have to cross the same point at the same time which is very hard to do. More likely is that a piece of debris is on a collision course or passes close enough to cause concern. In that scenario most satellites have small Thrusters and/or whats called a Control moment gyroscope to control attitude which allows them to be maneuvered out of a collision course, assuming you were able to detect the debris in the first place.

for orbits think of it like a circular path around the earth (more likely an oval) when you are in orbit you are basically moving fast enough that as gravity tries to pull you down you miss the earth and keep falling and the faster you are going around the earth the larger your "circular path" (orbit) is. Also many satellites especially for communication are in geosynchronous orbit which means that every time the earth completes an rotation the satellite completes an orbit. two satellites in geosynchronous orbit on the same orbital inclination could never collide because they would be going the same speed.

Question: Is light produced from a light bulb the same as the light produced by the sun?
Answer: Yes. Actually its extremely similar in that both emit a continuous spectrum that is called [black body radiation](_URL_0_) as contrasted to eg. LED lights that only produce spikes at certain wavelengths.

Question: What is cardio? What is actually happening as I get better at running?
Answer: Increased blood volume, stronger muscles (that are also more efficient and durable), and slightly reshaped bones are three of the things that you get from training that make you better at cardio.

Question: How did climate change, a natural, scientific issue, become a political issue? Furthermore, how does acceptance of it support the liberal agenda and go against the conservative agenda?
Answer: The fact of climate change is a scientific issue. *What should be done* about climate change automatically becomes a political issue.

The Liberal/Conservative divide generally comes about due to the different ideas about the role of the Federal government in dictating people's behavior. The US as a country was set up as a true union of States with their own individual governments. The Federal government was set up with a specific set of responsibilities and powers, and it was later clarified in the Tenth Amendment that those powers not specifically deligated to the Federal government are reserved to the States or People. In other words the Fed is capable of doing what the Constitution says it can do *and nothing more*.

Conservatives generally pay a lot of attention to this structure and figure that nowhere in the Constitution does it say "Earth, fire, wind, water, heart! By your powers combined, the Federal Government is Captain Planet!" Dealing with the threat of climate change is clearly reserved to the States or People so any climate-justified regulation, grants, etc. on the Federal level is a bad thing.

Liberals on the other hand tend to be much more group-oriented and concerned about collective action, and climate change responses are really only effective if everyone acts together. The Federal government has its fingers in everyone's pie so it is an obvious one-stop-shop for instituting climate change plans. They are less concerned about following the specific allocation of powers and figure the legitimacy of the need (and a dose of "Heart!") justifies the Federal government becoming Captain Planet regardless.

Question: Why does my stomach growl more in class than when Im home all day if im starving at both places?
Answer: Your stomach can sense the stomachs of other people and has to show its dominance. So it makes loud growling noises to show that you are the alpha stomach and you are not to be messed with.

Also, your stomach will growl more when you are out on a date in a quite movie theater as a sort of mating call. Its a primal instinct.

Question: Why do adults and teens have differently shaped knee caps?
Answer: Hi, there. I thought maybe I could chime in here, as I know a thing or two about the subject. Knee caps do not change shape with age.

Source: I am an adult and I know how bones work.

Question: Why do drums hold 55 gallons?
Answer: A standard drum is actually designed to hold 200 litres (a nice round number) with a little air space on top. That works out to about 55 gallons.

Question: Why is a smart and dumb friendship duo of two people always portrayed on TV?
Answer: At least in TV land, usually the "dumb" person is the audience stand in. They ask questions the audience night want to know the answers to which gives the smart person a reason to explain what they're talking about in a way that TV viewing audiences can understand (see Bones, Big Bang Theory, Fringe, Eureka as just a few examples off the top of my head). It's useful, but can be a particularly annoying trope when the subject is not really that hard to understand for anybody with a tenth grade education.

Question: Why is flexibility attractive in women?
Answer: nope its all about the sex, for me its just the idea of what it means is on the table for us to be able to do. I may be able to try new positions with a more flexible partner. Is it a huge deal? no, but its enough to get a few thoughts rushing through my head.

Question: Why is the US tax code so exploitable?
Answer: What do you mean exploitable? 

Do you mean how are people able to get away with tax fraud? Because it is, for the most part, a self-reporting system. The IRS gets lambasted for its budget, but it is responsible for checking the tax returns of 300M+ people, and countless corporations, trusts, and estates every year. They simply don't have resources to check everything.

Do you mean why are there so many small tax breaks that certain people can take advantage of? That's because making money is not simple. There are hundreds of different ways to make money, and we as a society have decided we don't want to treat them equally for various reasons. 

Take a person who makes $100,000 per year. He has income tax on that money. What if he's a gambler and loses lots of money? Should he be able to deduct his gambling losses? Probably not. But what if he makes money? Should he be taxed on that income when he can't take a deduction? So we solve that problem by saying gambling income is taxed, but you can deduct gambling losses up to the amount of wins you had.

The short of it is the IRS can't simply say that if you make money, we tax it. We demand a progressive system, and that requires a complicated set of rules to determine exactly how people need to pay. Is it perfect? Heavens no. But it basically does what it is designed to do.

Question: Why does medicine taken under the tongue enter the blood stream faster?
Answer: Under the tongue, there are a large number of blood vessels/capillaries. There, the drugs can enter your bloodstream without going through your digestive system.

Question: The important differences between republican and democrat?
Answer: Wow, no replies yet.  This is like walking into the lair of the beast - *any* assessment about what each party is about will attract contempt, nuances, polar conflicts... So let the shtstorm begin.  I will consider any replies and edit my response based entirely on how valid and relevant I feel the responses are.

Republicans generally prefer:

* That the government avoids getting involved with how businesses buy and sell things
* The government is a minimum size
* A powerful military
* Restricted immigration
* Individual responsibility, including the right to self-defense and suffering the consequences of circumstances/actions
* Minimal taxes

Democrats generally prefer:

* A focus on helping the lower class, social support programs, healthcare
* Adapting the laws based on society's changes, needs and preferences
* A liberal, tolerant and less traditional approach to laws, including gay rights, abortion, family structure, religion
* A smaller military
* Government size and tax that supports the extra social support programs

While this is the general public message, Republicans and Democrats vary greatly in execution.  For example, Democrats have caused the growth of military, and Republicans have more often affected tax increases.  Understanding these differences and "picking sides" is not something that should happen in an ELI5 - hope this gets you started, but do your own research!

Also, I am heavily biased.

Question: Why to muscles start to shake when they are under exertion?
Answer: When your brain sends the signal to the muscles of the arm to lift it, it also sends out a ton of signals telling the muscles to relax.  If it didn't, your muscle would contract so hard, so fast, that it could snap your bones out of their sockets.  So, ideally, the minimum number of muscle cells required to do the job will be used.  This is also more efficient, in terms of energy consumption.  

The skeletal muscle cells in your arm are long when relaxed, and when an electrical current from your nervous system is applied to a cell, it contracts.  That's why muscles always pull, never push.  As it contracts, it pulls on the next cell in the chain, which is also contracting and pulling on the next cell in its chain, and so on down the line until it connects to the bone.  This moves the bone, hopefully.  But when the bone doesn't move because it is supporting a very heavy weight, some of your muscle cells break.  Chains snap and other cells take on more of the load.  This can cause some shaking.

A lot of that shaking, though, is caused by the fact that your body is trying to use only the bare minimum of muscle cells required for the task.  Aside from the big muscle doing all the heavy lifting, you need to have a lot of smaller muscles controlling the weight as you lift it.  These muscles are smaller and weaker, and the body is trying to use them as little as possible.  So, they are constantly tensing and relaxing as the weight moves and they correct for slight movements of the bar in one direction and then the other.  This is what causes most of the shaking.  The stabilizer muscles are the first to go in a lift.  That's why someone can help you lift a weight with only two fingers that you can't lift by yourself.  They're doing the stabilization for you, which keeps you from shaking, which gives you confidence that you are lifting it, which helps you lift it.

Question: why is 42°C concidered a fatal temperature for humans, are components overheating like in a computer?
Answer: Components heating like in a computer is a good analogy... there are many things going wrong in your body at this temperature but one of the key things is your body is full of complicated biological molecules called _enzymes_ which control all the chemical reactions that keep us alive. Enzymes are made out of protein and above a certain temperature they start to change so that they no longer work. We can see proteins changing with temperature when we're heating meat in a pan and it changes smell and colour. We're literally starting to cook inside at these temperatures.

Question: Sponsors
Answer: Sometimes, sponsors don't just give you money. Sometimes they give you things. For example, Slash, Guns n Roses' guitarist is known for playing only Gibson guitars. Gibson sponsor Slash. He doesn't need to buy guitars because Gibson give them to him for free, and he is promoting Gibson because Slash is a famous guitarist.

People then go "Oh, Slash plays Gibson! Because Slash is an awesome guitarist, and I want to be as awesome as he is, I will buy a Gibson guitar."

Every kind of advertising is basically a sponsor, because they are helping you do what you want to do and what they ask in return is that you put a banner up behind the band, or put a sticker on your bike.

The more important you are, or the bigger the event is, the more money they will be ready to pay.

Question: What is a homeowners association and why can't they give you orders on what your house/garden should look like?
Answer: HOAs are typically started by a developer who owns a big group of properties they're selling off. Essentially, when anyone buys a house in their development, they agree to join and abide by the HOA as a part of their purchase contract. Once a certain number of homes are sold, the developer typically turns the HOA over to the directors, who are generally home owners in the area.

The purpose from the developer's viewpoint is to prevent people who have recently bought into a community from doing anything annoying or stupid that will make the remainder of the homes more difficult to sell. Home owners tend to like them because it prevents their neighbors from doing anything annoying or stupid that will bring down their property value.

They are controversial because they are not a government body, can be undemocratic, occasionally enable abuse by the directors, and basically levy a second property tax.

Question: How do snipers work in pairs?
Answer: sniper scout teams work in pairs.   a spotter and a shooter.   the shooter's role is to focus on the target and making the shot.   the spotter's role is to provide a broader field of view,  determine windage, elevation, calculate distance to field markers, provide wide view intel, as well as covering the shooter.

Question: Why do cats push on you with their paws before they go to sleep on you?
Answer: Calls back to their hayday of "kneading" on their mothers teats to get milk out of them.

It means they considering you their mother/protector, and they love you a lot.

Question: What happens when you're knocked out/become unconscious?
Answer: What you experience, or physiologically?

In terms of experience, I've passed out twice from an injection-induced vasovagal syncope.  I'm not afraid of needles, they just make me pass out for some damn-fool reason.  Anyhow, both times it was like a jump-cut in a movie.  I'm really, REALLY light-headed, and then all of a sudden I'm lying on the ground with a nurse asking if I'm okay and saying I've been out for 30 seconds or so.  It's actually kind of a cool experience, but I don't recommend seeking it out because of the possibility of head injuries due to falls.

Question: Why do we get addicted to things?
Answer: mainly due to positive association and receptors. When you enjoy something your brain produces dopamine, seratonin, oxytocin, and endorphines which is basically the chemicals responsible for happiness. So when you enjoy something your brain remembers it and decides that this is a good thing, obviously it would want to do that good thing again and so you do.

Question: Why do we hate "bandwagoners"?
Answer: People don't like to feel like they've lost a claim to something they once felt defined them. They feel like people who didn't get into their thing at an earlier point do not understand it in the way that they do, and that they only joined because it was popular.

In short, they feel threatened about losing a part of themselves to the mainstream.

Question: Can we put something completely static in space?
Answer: It turns out that there is no such thing as being *absolutely* still; you can only be still relative to some other object. So you can be perfectly still relative to whatever object you please, but it's impossible to be "objectively" still.

Question: What is the white stream seen coming from the back of airplanes?
Answer: There are two or three kinds of contrails.

One kind is from wingtip vortices (I think /u/ThatsPower's father was talking about these). At the tip of any wing, the high pressure air underneath swirls around to the low pressure region above, and as the plain flies along this leaves a (sometimes pretty intense) tubular vortex behind it. The pressure at the center of a vortex is lower than the surrounding air, so if the plane is flying through moist air that's just on the edge of cloud formation, the water vapor in that low-pressure region condenses out into fog and you get a pair of contrails coming off the wingtips. In some cases, [even the normal low-pressure area over the wing is enough to produce condensation](_URL_2_). [Here's a nice photo](_URL_1_) showing wingtip vortices as well as the far-field vortex wake of an airliner. Here's [a kind of crazy shot](_URL_0_) showing a bunch of low-pressure regions made visible around a transsonic jet by condensation.

Another kind is engine exhaust. Jet exhaust has a bunch of water vapor in it (burning a hydrocarbon fuel produces CO2 and water), and if the temperature/humidity is right, this can condense out into water droplets or ice crystals. This is what /u/barc0de is talking about.

ISTR there's a third phenomenon where the airplane can cause nucleation of visible vapor if it flies through saturated air, but I think that's a rare case.

Question: Whats going on when my URL bar sais about:blank?
Answer: When a browser sees "about:blank" that tells it to display a blank page.

Sometimes when bad coding or weird hiccups happen, your browser will open a new window, but fail to understand what's supposed to go in it, so it defaults to about:blank.

Question: Why Cassini needs to crash into Saturn to avoid contaminating a moon?
Answer: Huygens probe is clean, Cassini is not. It's pretty much as simple as that, but there's also that Titan is significantly less inhabitable than Enceladus so if something was hitchhiking it would most likely die.

Question: how do police enforce speed limits with aircraft?
Answer: There are lines painted on the highway at known intervals i.e. 1 mile apart. Use a stopwatch and bingo, you're busted.

Question: If I chill a (crappy) glass on the freezer then take it out and immediately pour boiling water in it, it will crack and possibly shatter. What exactly is going on?
Answer: Part of the glass gets hot, and before it can conduct that heat to the rest of the material, the rest of the material is cold. When things heat up, they expand, so one part of the glass is expanding while the cold part remains contracted. This results in thermal stresses causing the glass to break. If you let it heat up gradually over time, the glass would heat at a much more uniform temperature and thus there would be lower thermal stresses.

Question: Canada has a number of military procurement issues with arms manufacturers in the western world, largely having to do with cost. Why won't we consider buying arms from the eastern world?
Answer: Western (especially US) military stuff is the best, and it's not even close, like an iPhone compared to Zack Morris giant cellphone. Military hardware made in the east is crap, really crap, it's geared more towards low cost 3rd world nations that don't care if stuff breaks or backfires or even hits it's target or can be fixed etc.  Crap, awful. Want  replacement parts? Lol

And if you get into a conflict with one if those nations, well you're fucked right? Good luck getting any more. Buy from your friends.   

Also Canada has to get items that will work with NATO, it's militarily alliance, eastern stuff isn't compatible (and NATO nations would have a shit fit for a lot of reasons). It's simply not practically possible

Question: What essentially is the difference between public schools and charter schools, and what is the broad argument against charter schools in many communities?
Answer: A public school is a school that is funded with taxpayer (public) dollars and must follow all of the rules and regulations in place by the government.

A charter school is run privately but is also funded with taxpayer dollars. They don't need to follow all of the same rules. Essentially a private company is deciding what to teach your kids, and not the public who funds the school.

A public school generally will provide a more secular and standardized education, while a charter school can (but not necessarily will) push some biased agenda. It's a major issue because young minds are impressionable, and the ability to promote an agenda to children in school has a huge potential to cause problems.

Question: How do insect and bug sprays kill insects but don't harm us
Answer: >  How do insect and bug sprays kill insects but don't harm us

Most insecticides target specific aspects of the insect nervous system which are different from those of humans and mammals in general. These neurotoxins have various different types so getting into the details can be quite complex, but the general idea is that insects are sufficiently different for specialized substances to be toxic to them and not really for humans.

Question: Why are all of my dishes dry after running the dishwasher, except my Tupperware?
Answer: Heat. Ceramic and metal items get and stay hot enough in the dry cycle for the water to evaporate.

Question: Why is the last game of a baseball series called the "rubber match"?
Answer: For starters, it's only a rubber match if each team has won a game in the 3-game series-- meaning, the winner of the rubber match wins the series (by taking 2 of 3).

Question: How Corporations Work
Answer: A business isn't a corporation because it goes public.

Let's say that I sell computer repair services. I can hire 4 people to help me out, but if one of them massively messes up and exposes personal data/blows up a house, I could lose all of my possessions in the ensuing lawsuit.

Corporations are a way for us to create separate business entities so that our personal lives aren't put at risk when we do business.

Stock is just a way to sell part of your business's ownership - if I sell 49% of the stock, I still control the business but I'll have a giant mound of cash to invest in my business. If my business grows, my investor's stock is worth more, so they're happy as well.

But let's say that there's no majority owner - that 5 different people own 20% of the stock. Now the owners could run the thing themselves, but this would be complicated given that a 3/5 majority would be required for all decisions. So, they'll likely create a "board of directors" that has rules and procedures for their power, and appoint a CEO that will make the central decisions unless they want to force him or her out.

Does that make sense?

Question: Why does throwing up hurt?
Answer: I've always found my abdominal muscles hurt more when puking. As you get older, you're not supposed to throw up unless you really need to get something out of your system. Generally, the GI tract is a one way ticket to your butt. Everything about the musculature and nervous system is suppose to ensure a nice easy transit through your whole system. Chew food up nice and tiny, you swallow, peristaltic motion brings this newly ingested food to the stomach, where it chills until it's time to move into the intestines, nutrients get extracted, moisture gets extracted, until you have a bunch of poop in your colon that's ready to be expelled, hopefully into a toilet and not your pants. Generally, a one way system.

When stuff has to come out of your stomach, it needs to go back up a one way street. It's needs to go back up in a hurry, you can't just have a bunch of vomit hanging out in your esophagus. To accomplish that, your body needs to use a bunch of muscles in a way they're not really meant to be used. And it's a violent series of muscle contractions to accomplish that, so you generally feel sore and bad because it is a taxing thing for your body to do.

Question: How does a tax haven country benefit from the rich storing their money there?
Answer: You put the money into a bank in that tax haven.

Banks, when they look after your money, don't just leave it sitting in the safe doing nothing. They invest it! They might do this by lending it to other customers (for a fee), or by investing in the stock market or the currency exchange market. But that money is busy earring the bank money.

(I don't know the rules in Singapore, but in some tax havens - the Cayman Islands, for example, tax is very low for money earned offshore. But money earned in the tax haven *is* taxed, albeit not at a massive rate - but the money the bank makes probably *will* be taxed.)

Question: Why does driving at 50km/h feel like standing still after you've been driving at high speeds?
Answer: You don't perceive linear velocity, you perceive angular velocity.

Think about it like the Trench Run in Star Wars. If you're flying at 1000 km/h on the surface, a wide open space, things don't look like they are moving very fast. You get inside the trench doing 1000 km/h and it looks like you're going very fast.

Things travelling across large angles of your field of vision is how you perceive speed.

Question: why can we hear our own voice in our head when we "think".7
Answer: Imagine our brain takes all human vocal samples we hear and puts them in sound "Jars", and attaches a sticker with a picture of the human that is speaking on that jar. Whenever you imagine what a person's voice would sound like, your brain opens that jar and you hear his vocal samples. Imagine Morgan Freeman's face, now, his voice saying: *" I just don't think I can continue to live in a place that embraces and nurtures apathy as if it was virtue."*. Suddenly by the end of that sentence you'll hear his voice in your head, even if you said "**I** just don't think" - it wasn't you speaking to yourself, it was Morgan Freeman speaking to you about himself. 

When you speak to yourself, you imagine you speaking to yourself, literally. That is why your brain opens the jar with your face on it and you hear your own voice.

Question: Why isnit that it's difficult to retain your balance if you close your eyes?
Answer: Balance is accomplished by a few things working together. You have your ears, your eye fluid, and your brain (mainly the way it interprets what you see). It’s the same way you can tell if you’re standing up, staring at a wall or the ceiling.

Basically seeing helps you orient yourself. Cut that off and then the line between looking forward and looking 20 degrees to the left starts to blur and it’s harder for your brain to triangulate how you head is oriented and which way is straight and level.

You can prove this pretty easily by sitting in a chair, closing your eyes, standing up, and trying to move around. Your head will lock up in where it thinks “straight” is.

Question: How do states have time to pass silly bills when there are far more pressing issues at hand?
Answer: Writing a bill can be done by anyone with the interest in doing it. Many bills are written by companies or organizations, they just find one state senator to sponsor it. Voting on a bill hardly takes any time at all.

What takes a long time is finding compromise. With the really difficult and important issues, nobody can agree on the solution, so state legislatures spend most of their time arguing about how to compromise.

Question: How come people die of Cholera and Dysentery from drinking dirty water but people with scat fetishes seem alright?
Answer: So, let's take as a situation a small village where there are 1000 people.  All of 1000 of them poop in and all 1000 of them drink from the same water source.   In that situation if even one 1 of them gets sick, then all 1000 of them could drink the infected water and get sick all at once.   Whereas if they are doing scat things individually with one another, then if 1 gets sick, then only 1 other person will get sick.   So the chances are getting sick in a sewage situation is very high, whereas in a one-on-one situation you're fine unless you have the bad luck literally to be doing it with the one sick person.   That said, it's probably still pretty risky.

Question: What happens when corporations buy back their own stocks? Why is this done?
Answer: The primary purpose of a stock buyback is to boost the earning per share and thus boost stock price for those who still hold shares. 

If a company had $100 profit and 100 shares, then EPS is $1. If company buys back 20 shares, then EPS increases to $1.25. Presuming a constant multiple of 20x, the stock should increase from $20/sh. to $25/sh. Also, with fewer shares outstanding, the company can raise the dividend by splitting the pool of money among fewer shares.

In some cases, share buybacks might also be done to counteract share dilution from stock grants and options being exercised by employees — one of the reasons for Apple’s buyback in recent years, along with it being a way to return shareholder equity via use of their cash reserves.

Question: Why do women adopt their husband's last name upon marriage?
Answer: Because, traditionally, marriage was a transfer of property. The bride's father transferred ownership of the bride to her new husband. Hence the giving away of the bride by the father that still occurs in many modern ceremonies.

Question: What is phantom limb pain, and how do people feel it?
Answer: There are two strips of brain cells that run from ear to ear across the top of your head (The sensory-motor cortex). One strip is used to control all your movement in your body the other registers sensation all over your body. We can actually map out a person's body on these strips. When a person loses a limb, the parts of these strips (the neurons/brain cells) that used to control and feel the sensation for that limb eventually get re-purposed by nearby areas. So if you lose your left hand, the neurons that used to feel the sensations on the hand start feeling sensations of the forearm,  bicep, and even face. However, sometimes the brain forgets the limb is missing and mistakes the firing of the neurons in what used to be the hand area for a tickle or itch on the hand when in fact the sensation was actually on the bicep or face. The sensation of gripping with a phantom hand works much the same way in the motor strip.

Question: Why Is it possible to watch sick stuff on porn but when you get to try it IRL its suddently not so appealing?
Answer: Why is it possible to enjoy a movie like John Wick, were he relentlessly kills dozens of people, but when you see it in real life it's sickening and traumatizing?

Question: Why do I have to worry about an SSD in a personal computer losing space over time, but I don't have to worry about that problem on my cell phone or ipod?
Answer: You don't have to worry about any of that. The SSD will be replaced by the time it dies. It takes 10 years of copying 30GB of data, daily, to a SSD to kill it. 

Cellphones and iPods do use flash memory as well, so it's likely, they would also have the same effect, but again, they'll be in a trash heap far before the drive is useless.

Question: Why is Venezuela suffering from blackouts and violence?
Answer: Ok, I... I think I can explain it. But not in an ELI5 manner, so bear with me for a moment, please. 

Now, Venezuela has been suffering from a lack of infrastructures since around the 80's. 
Just to give you an idea, the biggest highway in the capital was built during the 50's, and most prisons are at least 30 or 40 years old, if not more. 

The electric grid and the hydroelectric plants suffer from a similar issue. They can barely function to provide electricity to such large parts of the country, since they were built without the huge population grow in mind and weren't really improved upon that much neither by the current government nor by the older ones. 

This, coupled with the fact that Venezuela occasionally suffers from droughts causes blackouts to be a very common thing. 

Now, the violence. That's one harder to explain and I'mma dip a bit into some controversial territory (as the cause, and even the very existence of this violence is a matter of dispute between the current government and its opponents). 

Venezuela has an incredibly large amount of poverty, which coupled with another part of the same infrastructure problem causes trouble. For example, [these Favela-like slums called Barrios or Cerros] (_URL_0_). 

Most of this poor population is also in many cases illiterate, and as such there's not a large amount of jobs they could aspire for (I mean, there's not a sufficiently large amount of jobs, period). Which moves many of them into delinquency. 

On the other hand, the Venezuelan police force (and the military) are highly ineffective at combating this delinquency, being underpaid and in many cases under-equipped to face criminals. 

So, in short, the high percentage of delinquency of the country is caused by an ineffectual police force, lack of available jobs and an incredibly large amount of the population living in poverty. 

There's also many more, deeper, issues at hand. Like the high levels of corruption and even the causes of this poverty in the first place. But we would be getting much deeper into controversy and political discussion, and ELI5 is not really the place for it. 

Hope this helps.

Question: How come buses do not have seatbelts?
Answer: The bus driver, as the operator of a motor vehicle, is required by most states' automotive laws to wear a seatbelt. 

The reason for it is physics. Have you ever seen a bus and sedan collision? The result is a pancaked sedan and barely scratched bus. An occupied bus has *far* more mass than a four-door car, meaning much of the impact can be mitigated. When a collision happens, the force exerted by the car onto a bus is not great enough to be a life-threatening issue. 

Think if a bowling ball collided with a baseball. The baseball would shoot forward while the bowling ball would barely budge. It's the same thing happening here.

Question: If DNA is the blueprint for creating enzymes that synthesize DNA, how did DNA first come about?
Answer: Miller and urey did an experiment some 50 years ago. They took basic chemicals and put it in a special flask that simulated prehistoric conditions such as lightning and volcanic acitivty.

Macromolecules like DNA, RNA, and fats formed.

Probably one of the coolest experiments ever in my opinio

Question: Why do we need to go to Mars?
Answer: Because having every human being in existence living on one easily destroyed rock is incredibly short sighted. We need to start moving off of earth if we want to survive and evolve as a species. Plus it would be indescribably awesome to know that a member of my species is standing on another planet more than 33 million miles away. It just boggles my mind that a little more than a century ago humans were mostly stuck in the ground, and now we're capable of colonizing a completely new world.

Question: The symbolism behind Bioshocks Andrew Ryan
Answer: As a place to start - You should familiarize yourself with Andrew Ryan's namesake... Ayn Rand.

Andrew Ryan is pretty much Ayn Rand's philosophy's given flesh... and then everything goes horribly wrong.

Question: How can people be sure of a message sent in morse code? What if you missed a blink to write it down or only noticed after a while?
Answer: Believe it or not (according to what I've read), it's not that hard to pick up once you're trained to do it. In WW2, morse operators were often able to recognize and distinguish between the morse code signals of different senders.

It becomes no different than any language. Occasionally, when we speak or write, we misspell a word or drop a word or mix something up, but we are still able to completely understand what is being said and written. Morse (once you have learned that "language") is no different.

Question: How are the people investigating Hillary right now not part of the "establishment" that would want Hillary to win?
Answer: The only people who want Hillary Clinton to win are Democrats. Republicans have every interest in spoiling her candidacy as it would be a shocking scandal that would hurt the democrats at large in the presidential race.

[CNN is reporting that the Republicans are claiming credit for the Benghazi hearings as a political move against the Democrats](_URL_0_). The Republican establishment wants her gone, and they represent about half of the Washington establishment. The Washington establishment is not one group, but two groups who keep each others' influence in check through their endless political wars. The Republicans would love to see Sanders win because the blow to the Democratic establishment would make Trump less of an embarrassment to them, and because they could play it against the whole party.

Question: Why do babies cry? Wouldn't this be an adaptive nightmare for early humans who had to deal with predators?
Answer: Babies are cared for in the group. A group of humans is going to be loud anyway, so having a baby cry doesn't particularly add to that loudness. And very few predators would attack a group of armed humans. The crying is a good signal however that this baby needs to be attended to (and is in fact ridiculously annoying to people so we can't ignore it) and it is also a good way to help find a child should they ever get lost. Might it draw predators near in that situation? Yes, definitely. But a child without a group is pretty much dead for anyway. Better to run the small risk of being caught be a predator with the chance that someone might find you VS staying quiet, lowering the risk of predators catching you, and then starving to death.

Question: If forensics try to match a bullet to a barrell based on markings. Why not record the barrell before sale and index the markings?
Answer: Matching a bullet to a gun by barrel marks borders on impossible. Constant changes to cleanliness, heat stress, wear and tear..... even variables in ammunition quality.... in a court of law, the best a forensics person could say is the bullet is consistent with the gun type, but could never with 100 percent certainty say that x bullet came out of y gun.

Question: What does Bill Clinton balancing the budget mean?
Answer: Balancing the budget means the government spent less than they took in.  Clinton raised taxes, cut spending, and had huge revenue from the dot com boom.

The US still had a deficit, which is why foreign debt could increase.

If you make $50K a year and spend $60K, then you have $10K debt.  That $10K is the deficit.  The next year, you make $50K and spend $48K.  Your budget for that year is balanced since you took in more than you spent, but you still have the $10K deficit from the previous year.  

Foreign debt is just 'how much of the deficit do I owe to foreigners", so that portion can increase or decrease while keeping the total deficit the same.

Year 1 you borrowed $10K from your neighbor.  No foreign debt.  You then borrow $5K from a foreigner and pay your neighbor.  Now you owe $5K to your neighbor and $5K to the foreigner.  Foreign debt increased but you still owe a total of $10K the same as when you started.

Question: Why can't towns create their own internet networks?
Answer: They can.   Its just expensive, and requires a town budget spending that needs to be approved.

The term is municipal network.

Question: people with crosses on their heads today?
Answer: Today is Ash Wednesday. 

It marks the beginning of Lent in Christian religions (in particular, Catholicism). It symbolizes the start of the trials of Christ in the desert prior to his crucifixion; where he was being tempted by Satan. Traditionally, the ashes are made from burning the previous year's palm leaves from Palm Sunday.

Source: Was raised Catholic.

Edit: Fixed a comma splice XP

Question: Why are there "Terms of Service" of websites? What do they do and don't do? What happens if you go to a website with no TOS?
Answer: TOS are quasi-legal contracts between you and the website. Most of them are filled with legalese that lets the website do anything and takes away any legal rights you might have had (but not always), and these sorts of TOSs are not always legally enforceable in their entirety.  

Sometimes TOS spell out how you are to behave in the community, but again these are merely CYA so they can ban virtually anyone for whatever they think is misbehavior.

If you go to a website that does not have a TOS and/or a McDonald's that also does not have a TOS you merely retain all your normal legal rights.

TOS only exist because it's 'easy' to make everyone click the agree button on a website, and because people will do it. You don't see TOS in a lot of business because it's awkward to have everyone who walks into your store sign a waiver - but if the business is sufficiently dangerous they will still have you sign one (which like a TOS is also not always legally enforceable)

Question: how do people who speak Mandarin spell out their written language to someone over the phone?
Answer: Like i want to say my last name Yang. 

I would say 'my last name is yang, the one with a tree in front of it' 杨

And its a very common last name. Most people would know how to spell it.

Question: Why can I keep butter at room temperature for days at a time, but not cream, when butter is made from cream?
Answer: The butter you're leaving on the counter is salted butter, which is therefore preserved. If you did that with unsalted butter, it'll spoil. You can prevent that if you store your butter in a [french butter dish](_URL_0_). It's an extremely simple device, The lid holds the butter in the cup. It's butter, it'll stick in there. The basin has just a little bit of water in it. When you place the lid on the basin, the water creates an air tight seal around the cup. It'll keep your butter fresh for a month.

Question: When reading comments, why is it that sometimes you can see the amount of points a comment has and other times it looks like this [~]?
Answer: Subreddits can set where you can't see the number of upvotes or downvotes so you won't upvote because everyone else does.

Question: what does #mbps up #mbps down exactly mean?
Answer: It measures how quickly you're able to transfer data. "Down" speed is incoming data (ie: watching a YouTube video), "up" speed is outgoing data (ie: uploading a video to your own channel). For example, downloading a 5-gigabyte file at 25 megabits per second will take 1637 seconds, which is about 28 minutes.

Unfortunately, "mbps" is kind of ambiguous: it could refer to mega*bits* or mega*bytes* per second (since a byte is 8 bits, a megabyte is 8 megabits).

If someone is being technical "Mb" is a megabit and "MB" is a megabyte... but you should be cautious, since a lot of people are sloppy about that.

When in doubt, it's usually megabits.

edit: fix units

Question: What are the mechanics of throwing? Why do we point our non-throwing arm at the target then drop it as we move our other arm forward?
Answer: This boils down to generating as much force as possible.

Think about how something like a trebuchet works -- there's a heavy counterweight that swings down, and this creates a ton of rotational force.

Your non-throwing arm is doing the same thing. You point it out, then swing it back through your shoulders, generating extra force in your throw. The weight and momentum of that arm helps to propel the throwing arm forwards.

Question: How can the same dose of a drug be OTC and RX at the same time?
Answer: Bureaucracy and regulatory capture. Generic preparations of OTC drugs still have to pass FDA scrutiny. In this case Miralax, the brand name did all the work (or maybe had lunch with the right people) to get FDA approval for OTC sales before the generic manufacturer did.

For a period of time the brand name manufacturer can end up being able to sell the product OTC before any generic manufacturer can.

Question: Purchasing Debt
Answer: If the company who owns the debt knows you're involved in trying to purchase your own debt, they know that you're willing to pay some money. They only sell debt when they're convinced that it's unlikely they'll see any of that money they're owed, and your interest in buying that debt would prove that's not the case.

Even if they didn't care about that, they won't sell individual debts. That would be like creating a store that sells individual m & m's: way too much work for what they would get for selling an individual debt. Rolling Jubilee purchased a couple million dollars of debt, and that's just a fraction of a fraction of a fraction of a percent of the debt that's out there.

Question: What is the symbolic fear represented by dead young girls in the movies (e.g. The Ring)
Answer: Because children are innocent, loved and protected while adults can be monsters.

Having a young girl who we see as innocent (white dress come on...) murdering people is out of the realms of our reality and hence shit's fucked. 

Like when you see an young girl, you'll be like awwww. Then when her head starts to form, you're like awww shit. Where as an adult stood in front of you doing nothing, you're already on guard.

Having an adult ghost is just the norm, "meh some people are more scarier than that" mentality.

Question: How do we charge our phones wirelessly?
Answer: Simply put it's induction charging, the specific process I'm not going to explain in too much detail but an analogy I physicist once told me as a good way of explaining of the process which might make it clearer for you.

Think of a battery with an electrical circuit as a track filled with ball bearings that can't get out of the track (the phone or device being charged) but can move freely along it if you push them through it. Now you take a strong magnet and hold it near to the track but not touching it (wirelessly) you can drag the ball bearing (electrons) along the track (the wire inside the device). 

Now remember that any electrical circuit will cause a magnetic field as part of it's properties and you can imagine how lots of magnets dragging the ball bearings would work. 

This is pretty much what happens as there is a coil of wire inside the device and another inside the charging surface, when they are aligned correctly the charger causes the electrons in the device to be moved along. This process has the useful effect of charging the electrons in the device without them being in contact and therefore recharges your phone (albeit more slowly than if you just plugged it in). 

This is also why Inductive charging hasn't taken off as much due to consumer demand for mobile telephones that offer quick charging times or devices like electronic toothbrushes which typically don't require super fast recharge times because after the morning/evening rush it can have all day to recharge.


_URL_0_ - Electromangnetic induction article which explains some other uses for the same basic process.

_URL_1_ - Inductive charging article

Question: why does time seem to move quicker when I'm occupied?
Answer: The prevailing theory is that, when a brain is occupied with a task, then it has to spread its resources, leaving little to spend focused on the passing of time. However, if nothing in particular is occupying our conscious brain, it takes more notice of the time ticking by. The funny thing is, this slower vision is thought to be the more accurate perception of reality. It isn't about danger vs safety. It's about how much of our brain power is devoted to the passing of time, and how much to other things.

Question: How does a group like the Illuminati , who were originally a group of free thinkers from the 1700's now be accused of trying to take over the world?
Answer: I apologize for the length, but you've opened up a can of worms with this question. 

Describing the historical Illuminati as just "a group of free thinkers" is a bit misleading. The order was essentially geared towards a strict regime of moral education, which involved writing monthly confessionals (the "quibus licet" reports) and spying on other members, as well as using the order's influences to get the supposedly morally superior initiates influential positions in order to *slowly* reform society to a utopian state where everyone would be so rational that any form of government would no longer be necessary. Adam Weishaupt, the founder, was heavily influenced by the writings of Antoine Court de Gébelin and Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who were both really big on ideas like primitivism and the noble savage. At the same time, the order was also extremely deceptive, using a variety of myths (such as claiming to be descendants of the Knights Templar) to attract members and it also had a very radical required reading list. As members advanced in the order, they were expected to read scandalous literature like d'Holbach's *Christianity Unveiled*. 

Until the Bavarian government published *Einige Originalschriften des Illuminatenordens* and *Nachtrag von Weitern Originalschriften* in 1787, two large collections of confiscated order documents and really the main source of what we know about the order, the only real information on the Illuminati came from disgruntled defectors, especially the juridical deposits of Joseph Utzschneider and two of his colleagues, Cosandey and Grünberg. Utzschneider had defected in early 1783 after someone tried to coerce him to steal letters from the Duchess Marie Anne of Saxony, the former electress of Bavaria and an opponent of Hapsburg acquisition of Bavaria. To simplify an incredibly complex affair: Joseph II, the Holy Roman Emperor, wanted Bavaria; the Prince-Elector of Bavaria, Karl Theodor, wanted to trade off Bavaria; and Frederick the Great did not want Joseph II to get Bavaria. Joseph II had tried to take advantage of a succession dispute in 1777, when Karl Theodor had become the heir of Bavaria despite not really wanting it (he was already the Elector of the Palatinate), to achieve his goals but ended up losing a war against Frederick the Great instead. However, Joseph II had a new plan in 1783, which a majority within the Munich branch of the Illuminati supported, and Marie Anne had written to Frederick the Great to help put a stop to it. The letters Utzschneider were asked to steal were from Frederick the Great. So there was a clear political element in the suppression, and it's not surprising that the juridical deposit left by Utzschneider et al. says stuff like:

 > They also boast that they are in possession of the secret of opening and reclosing letters without the circumstance being perceived. 

and

 > The end sanctifies the means. The welfare of the Order will be a justification for calumnies, poisonings, assassinations, perjuries, treasons, rebellions; in short, for all that the prejudices of men lead them to call crimes. 

as well as

 > They made us give answers in writing to the following questions: How would it be possible to devise one single system of morals and one common Government for all Europe, and what means should be employed to effectuate it?

The first two are complete crock, of course, but I imagine that the third quote is a misinterpretation (if it did happen).  In *The Genesis of German Conservatism*, Klaus Epstein mentions that the equally incorrect idea that the superiors in the order had the "power of life and death" over their subordinates was very widespread.  It did not help that the authorities found a recipe for poison during a search of Xavier Zwack's house in 1786. In addition, the suppression of the Illuminati was a comparatively limited affair. Even though there were edicts in Mainz and Bonn (coupled with an edict issued by Joseph II that tried to bring freemasonry closer under imperial control), Bavaria was the only territory I'm aware of where members were actually arrested. Johann Bode would, with the support of the ruling dukes of Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg and Saxe-Weimar, continue to direct the order from either Weimar or Gotha (not entirely sure which, unfortunately) until its demise in either 1787 or 1788, but he would also help establish the *Philadelphe* circle while visiting Paris in 1787 as well as the *Deutsche Freimaurerbund* in 1790, which was for all intents and purposes an extension of the Illuminati. So conspiracy theorists had plenty to work with, even though Bode effectively purged all radical elements out of the Illuminati and seems to mainly have been interested in masonic reform.

The *Originalschriften*, which would be joined by the third volume *Die Neuesten Arbeiten des Spartacus und Philo in dem Illuminatenorden* in 1793 (consisting of documents stolen by a defector), the juridical deposits, and other documents were all used by Augustin Barruel to support the idea that the French Revolution had been engineered by the Illuminati in his 1797 *Memoires Illustrating the History of Jacobinism*. John Robison, a scottish professor, published *Proofs of a Conspiracy* the same year, which makes essentially the same argument as Barruel. To simplify a bit, Robison and Barruel both saw the Illuminati as anti-Christian attempts to destroy the natural order of things born out of the radical elements of the French Enlightenment. Their books were incredibly influential and pretty much delineated the conspiratorial interpretation of the Illuminati, later authors have reinterpreted this depending on their anxieties but the core is the same. Nesta Webster tacked on an anti-semitic element into the whole affair and saw the history of the Illuminati as beginning before 1776, the John Birch Society saw Weishaupt as the originator of the Communist Conspiracy, and so on. The idea of a "world domination" oriented Illuminati may, if you'll forgive me for speculating, have come during the Cold War period.

**tl;dr The Illuminati wanted Austrian acquisition of Bavaria. Bavarian loyalists defected and gave exaggerated testimony to demonize the order. House searches and confiscated documents seemed to support these claims, plus the continued existence of the Illuminati in Northern Germany was seen as evidence that they were still up to no good (despite it essentially being a masonic reform movement at this point). Robison and Barruel spun all of this into conspiratorial narratives about the french revolution, which later authors have interpreted depending on their own views.**

Sources:

* Neugebauer-Wölk, Monika. "Illuminaten" in *The Dictionary of Gnosis and Western Esotericism*, ed. Wouter Hanegraff. Brill, 2006.

* Israel, Jonathan. "Chapter 31: Aufklärung and Secret Societies" in *Democratic Enlightenment: Philosophy, Revolution, and Human Rights 1750-1790*. Oxford University Press, 2011.

* Epstein, Klaus. *The Genesis of German Conservatism*. Princeton University Press, 1966.

* McIntosh, Christopher. *The Rose Cross and the Age of Reason*. SUNY, 2011.

The excerpts from the juridical deposit are taken from Augustin Barruel's *Memoirs*, but I don't know the exact page number or volume. The whole depositcan be read [here](_URL_0_), but the article is not as good as some of the author's later writing.

**EDIT:** Rewrote the concluding paragraph.

**EDIT #2:** To my critics, this is about as simple as you can get without vastly distorting the historical record. But I agree that it was a bad decision to not include a tl;dr, so I've rectified that.

**EDIT #3:** Thanks for the gold, kind strangers! I'll be sure to put in a good word for you when I return to JIDF headquarters  later to collect my paycheck (and yes, they do pay me by the word.)

Question: How a company can trademark a single word and prevent the word being used in anything?
Answer: You're a little confused about how trademark works.

Trademarks protect the look and branding of a specific product or class of products. The protection they grant is limited in scope. Sky TV can't keep me from brewing a beer and calling it Sky Pale Ale. However, if I were to use their logo on the label, or something that looked very similar to it, then they would have a case.

However, you can sue anyone for anything. Doesn't mean you'll win. In order for a company to prevail in a trademark lawsuit, they typically have to show that there exists either the likelihood of brand confusion (ie: a reasonable consumer believes the same company just happens to make TV shows and beer), or that the use of the trademarked term by another party devalues the trademark.

In reality, the practical application of trademark law means that many factors are taken into consideration: are the two parties selling product or competing in the same market? Are they selling a similar product (Suzuki motorcycles vs. Suzuki Japanese Grill)? Is the branding of the defendant physically or materially similar to that of the plaintiff ? How common is the term in question (a unique name like "Incrediways" is liable to have much more protection than "Cloud", "Sky", or "Earth")?

Generally, common English words are the hardest to protect in trademark, because they have a broader application beyond a brand name.

Question: National Conventions
Answer: A long time ago, before modern communications, parties still needed to figure out who among them would be the one person from that party running for President that year. Generally it was decided by a few powerful people in a "smoke filled room" that had almost no input from the outside world.

So eventually, in the 1840s, some people came up with a better way to do this as the country got large. Instead of just letting a few party bosses chose, a few thousand would come together and have a vote for who it should be. That thousand represented mayors, governors, senators etc from all the states, so that it was more "democratic" than just a hand full of people making the decision.

But in the early 1900s, people started to think a few thousand people wasn't enough representation for average people. At the 1912 convention Roosevelt lost to Taft at the convention even thought most Republicans wanted Roosevelt. Taft got to choose who came to the convention so he stacked the convention with his supporters. After that convention the practice of "primaries" (local elections) and "caucuses" (local small-sized conventions) to decide who goes to the convention began to spread quickly. These didn't end conventions, they got implemented state by state slowly and only was meant to tell delegate who to vote for in the first vote at the convention.

Now every state has either a primary or a caucus so it is known long before the convention who the president will be. They are still used to agree on a "plank" (official statement of the party's beliefs for that election) but their main point, to nominate a president, is ceremony only.

Question: What would happen if we were more transparent with our national security plans?
Answer: If we say, "Russia can have the Ukraine and one of the little Baltic countries before we're mad enough to send over an army" that's an invitation to an adversary to commit mischief.

It's like going to a negotiation and saying "I'll pay $12.32", you disclose your position without probing to find your adversary's position.  What if he'd have sold it for $9.73?  You left a lot of money on the table.

Question: Why don't animals pull their muscles when exerting themselves?
Answer: IamA veterinarian. Animals over exert themselves all the time. My favorite example is the guy who came to see me for lameness in his 10yr old dog. He was a college student visiting home for the holidays and, the day before I saw him, decided to take the elderly, homebody Huskie for a 10 mile run. He's lucky she was only sore.

Question: Do we sleep for only psychological reasons?
Answer: [There are more reasons for it. See Fatal Familial Insomnia - a rare disease in which the patient eventually dies because they can't sleep.](_URL_0_) 

It seems that the exact reason we need to sleep isn't fully understood, but it's pretty clear that there are serious consequences of sleep deprivation - like weight gain and a decrease in white blood cells. If we don't sleep at all - we'll die. 

Many of the theories about why we sleep involve metabolism - how our bodies take in fuel like food, and make energy that we need to move, eat, etc. When we're most active, during the day, we need a lot more energy - so there's a lot more activity going on as far as converting things like food in to energy. The thing is, these processes give us not only energy, but by-products called free radicals. It's almost like how if you burn something - you'll have a flame (energy produced) - but you'll also have smoke (free radicals.) 

Free radicals can damage the cells of the body. Sleeping may give the body an opportunity to essentially catch up and repair the damaged cells. So in our analogy - lets say you have a controlled campfire but it's in your house. The smoke is damaging your stuff, so you try to start removing the smoke by opening a window, operating a fan, whatever, but the campfire is still putting off a lot of smoke. So you put some water on the fire and it dies down a bit. Now you have a chance to get rid of more of the smoke. 

Sleep is basically allowing us to turn down the "flames" (energy production) so we have more of an opportunity to clean up the smoke (free radicals) and the damage that comes from it. Again, there really is no true consensus on why we sleep - but this is a prominent theory.

Question: Why does an e-reader screen flicker so badly on each refresh?
Answer: There are two reasons for this. The pixels of an e-reader is based on the physical movement of the pigments to the back or the front of the screen. These pigments can get stuck just like an old etch & sketch. To prevent this the e-reader will flicker the screen to get the pigments unstuck.

The other reason is that to keep the cost and the power drain down it is fitted with a slow CPU and memory. Typesetting and display processing is rather expensive processes that requires some processing power to do. The slow CPU may take some time to render the next page for you.

Question: Why some drugs make us feel drowsy/sleepy and why some don't?
Answer: Think of your nervous system as a light with a dimmer switch, Certain drugs are capable of increasing the brightness. Some drugs turn it down.

In the case of the nervous system glutamate is a chemical in our bodies that turns up the brightness making nerves more "excitable" while GABA is a chemical in our bodies that turns down the brightness making nerves less "excitable".    
  
And certain drugs can enhance or stimulate one or the other systems.   
  
GABA and glutamate aren't the only systems involved there are others, but the principle is similar.

Question: Does your stomach stop telling you that you are hungry based on the weight of food you have eaten, the volume of it or something else?
Answer: The cue to stop eating is a combination of several factors. 

1) Blood sugar reaching a certain level. Your blood sugar starts going up fairly quickly when you start to eat. Once you get to some minimal levels that is one signal that you have eaten enough. 

2) Volume. Your stomach knows how full it is and it will signal that you are done eating when it reaches a "full" volume. This is somewhat variable though and you can train your stomach to think different volumes are full. People with anorexia or who just eat small meals will get full faster because they have trained their stomachs to not stretch much before sending full signals. Meanwhile professional contest eaters will train their stomachs to not send full signals till they have eaten an absurd amount of food. A trick to lose weight is to drink an extra glass of water at the beginning of a meal to up stomach volume so you eat less.

Question: Why do we need surround sound, when we only have 2 ears? Alternatively: how do I know a sound is coming from the front or back from me?
Answer: You seem to understand that the ears can localize sounds based on the slight delay it takes to get to the near ear and the far ear. In cases where there is no delay - something in front or behind you - there are other mechanisms. The shape of your ear filters out different frequencies of sound differently, and it also filters sound in front and behind differently as well. Not only that, other ambient factors - such as sound reflecting off walls, can give clues that your brain can pick up on.

This is one of the reasons it's sometimes hard to localize sounds with earbuds - you've bypassed the filtering effect your outer ear has.

Question: How does the Reddit Enhancement Suite (RES) work?
Answer: Works in the same way as greasemonkey scripts; RES is javascript that alters the html returned from the server.

Question: Why USA cant seem to adopt the model of national health service present in every other western country?
Answer: The main thing is that Americans tend to have a fundamentally different relationship with our government than most other western nations. Most other nations tend to view their governments as positive forces that are there to help take care of society. Americans tend to view government as something inherently inefficient and intrusive into our lives. Recall the old Ronald Reagan quote, ""The nine most terrifying words in the English language are: 'I'm from the government and I'm here to help.'"  A great number of people believe that. 

So, the result is that while most other nations debate and argue about how the government should manage health care, Americans are debating and arguing about whether it's even the government's job to manage health care at all.

Question: Just saw this and can't get my head around it: "When you are moving away from a person, their perception of time's effect on you is slower." Anyone care to explain?
Answer: It's like what happens when you hear a car pass by. You know the sound that it makes, it goes a bit like "heeeeeeee-yooooooou" the "he" part being when it's coming at you, and the "you" part when it's moving away from you? The sound you hear is speeded up when it's coming at you, resulting in the "he" (higher pitched) sound. And when it's moving away from you the sound is slowed down, resulting in the (lower pitched) "you" sound. 

The same thing that happens here with sound, also happens with light. So when something is moving away from you, the *image* is slowed down, and when it's moving toward you, the *image* is speeded up. Because light moves a lot faster than sound, though, you'd have to go *really* fast to notice this effect on the image.

*edit: I like how I'm being downvoted, yet no one has improved my answer.

Question: Why don't women catcall men?
Answer: Women are not encouraged to express their sexuality in the same way as men in our culture. Women actually having lots of sex or otherwise finding too many men attractive is frowned upon (the term "slut shaming" is used to describe this).

Question: I have O-Negative blood, I can donate to anyone in the world, but only another O-Negative can donate to me in emergency. Why?
Answer: Your blood is special because it lacks any of the common markers which would make a body unused to them react with force from the immune system.  The downside is that your body is accustomed to blood without any of these markers, and will identify blood with any of them as foreign and react accordingly.

Question: How do they determine the suggested speed for curves on roads?
Answer: There’s a lot of physics involved but the boiled down way is that when you’re moving around a circle your car wants to get pushed out. The friction of the road stops some of this, and the bank of the road stops some more. Engineers determine how fast you can go without losing traction, the. Have a safety factor (this allows for some people who will naturally go faster than they want) and that speed is the limit

Question: Bitcoin mining?
Answer: **Like. You. Are. Five.**

There are lots of different kinds of money, but pretty much all of them have somebody in charge.  Maybe it's a bank or a government or a company, but there's somebody that everyone else has to go to if they want to use the money.

Some guy in Japan was thinking "I wonder if you could have a money without having one big guy in charge?"  That would be nice, because then you wouldn't have to worry about the guy in charge being a jerk.  So, he came up with a way to make a money where instead of having one big guy in charge, zillions of people all watch each other and they all vote to make sure they all agree on how much money everyone has.

Everyone knows how much money everyone else has and every time someone gives someone else some money, they both tell the whole world and it goes into the Bitcoin Public Permanent Record.  That way, if someone tries to lie about what happened later, the whole world can check the Permanent Record and prove that they're lying.

So, the guy in Japan had a problem:  He needed to make adding something to the Bitcoin Public Permanent Record super-duper hard to do so that it would be super-duper hard to fake and trick everyone, but how could he get anyone to actually do all that hard work?

He came up with the idea that every entry in the Permanent Record would record a bunch of people's trades, but it would also have one, extra special trade of 50 coins that can go to anybody.  The rule was that whoever did the work that set up the entry to be good enough for the Permanent Record could give mark those 50 coins as going to anyone he wants --even himself!

A lot of people liked this idea and they started trading bitcoins for fun.  Eventually, it got popular enough that some people started trading stuff for bitcoins and even dollars for bitcoins!  How many dollars for a coin?  Well, that depends on how much the guy with dollars wants a coin.  There's no law stopping you from trading stuff for dollars and as far as the government is concerned, bitcoins are some weird kind of stuff --like gold or maybe more like pogs...

Question: What are the differences in different types of RAM?
Answer: RAM has two qualities you should look for, clock speed and size. The size is given as some GB. You should go for 4 or 8 now, mainly because it cheap. More is never worse, but to much won't help you. The other is clock speed, it's given in Hz and 1333 or 1600 are common ones (often they won't write the Hz). This tells you how many operations the ram can do each second. Once again more is better. 

Now, if you have more than 4 GB of 1333 RAM you probably can't really tell the difference if you get more or faster. Unless you are doing some really heavy video edition or something.

Question: Why do people invest in gold and silver?
Answer: Personally, I do it to diversify. Gold and silver have held value throughout time, but who knows what will happen to various markets?

 & nbsp;
I know that in the past, people flocked to it to hedge against inflation. So if inflation is at 10% that means your money is losing value every year, so you bought gold to prevent your cash from losing value. 

EDIT: clarifying the point

Question: Finite and non-finite clauses and verbs.
Answer: **Clause**

Basically the smallest grammatical unit. If it can stand alone as a sentence, it is an independent clause. If it cannot stand alone as a sentence, it is a dependent clause.

*The kid shut the door.* Is an independent clause and sentence.

*After he entered the house* Is a dependent clause.

We can combine clauses together to form complex sentences like this:

*After he entered the house, the kid shut the door.*

Clauses typically will have a verb or verb phrase in it.

**Infinitives**

Verbs have different forms depending on how they are used. Most commonly verbs change form depending on the tense (e.g. run vs. ran). The infinitive form of the verb, in English is usually seen with the word "to" preceding the verb. (e.g. "to run")

A notable thing about infinitives is they cannot exist alone in an independent clause.

**Putting it together.**

So, simply put, a finite clause is a clause with a finite verb, and a non-finite clause is a clause with a non-finite (infinitive) verb.

Example of non-finite clause: *To get a drink.*

We should note that non-finite clauses are necessarily dependent; we have to add additional clauses to make a complete sentence:

*The kid entered the house to get a drink.*

Question: why do new airplanes still have ashtrays in the bathroom?
Answer: If someone violates the no smoking rule you want to ensure they have a good place to put out the cigarette.  If they put it in the trash can and a fire starts at 38,000 feet then everyone is dead

[CNN did an article about this earlier this year(warning autoplay)](_URL_0_) and it is required by law that US airplanes have ashtrays in the bathroom

title 14 of the Code of Federal Regulations, chapter I, subchapter C, part 25, subpart D, section 25.853, paragraph g

 > Regardless of whether smoking is allowed in any other part of the airplane, lavatories must have self-contained, removable ashtrays located conspicuously on or near the entry side of each lavatory door

Plus, smoking isn't banned on airlines in all countries, there are still airlines buying new planes on which smoking is permitted.  Boeing and Airbus like to ship some standard interiors to reduce engineering costs

Question: What is anxiety? Is there actually something going on in the brain or body during high levels of anxiety or is just some fabricated excuse for people to be wimps?
Answer: >  Is it actually a real thing?

Yup. 

 > Is the mind and body having something happen to it during an "anxiety attack"? 

If you've seen someone having a panic attack, you would notice them sweating, shaking, out of breath, and they can feel their heart beating as well as struggling to breath and choking. Psychologically, they feel fear, anxiety and even a sense of detachment from the world. 

In the more serious cases, too much anxiety is a medical condition and is treated with talk therapy and medication.

Question: How come solid state drives (SSDs) are mostly only available at storage spaces of 64, 128, 256gb and hard drives are available at more "rounded" spaces like 150, 500, 600gb, etc.?
Answer: Let's say you have a swimming pool and you want to fill it with candy.  How many pieces of candy fit?  Maybe it's 1,000,000 pieces.

You decide that you want to fit as many pieces of candy into the pool as possible without making the pool bigger, so you make the candy smaller (to your five-year-old self a piece of candy is a piece of candy, no matter what size it is).  You start finding ways to make the candy smaller and smaller until you can fit 1,500,000 pieces of candy in your swimming pool.  You tell all your friends about that feat, then you go back and try making smaller and smaller pieces of candy.

That's an analogy for the manufacture of hard drives:  there's a certain physical space that they have and they're trying to fit as many bits on a platter as possible.  When they hit certain milestones they push that design into production.  There's no preference for numbers that are nice and round in binary, so they stick to numbers that are nice and round to humans.

*******

Now imagine you go into the candy production business. You release a pack of candy that has 8 pieces of candy in it.  It's popular, but all the kids on the block want more pieces of candy.  To satisfy that demand you release a package that just has two of the previous packages in it, wrapped together.  This new 16-piece package sells great, so you fix up your machines to make the 16- piece packages the standard.

Over time the demand for candy increases so you do just what you did before:  you tie two packages together and sell that as a new product.  Now you're selling 32-piece packages (which we know are just two 16-piece packages tied together, each of which are two 8-piece packages).

Repeat this cycle several times.  As you move to larger and larger packages you streamline the packaging for the smaller packages ("this unit not marked for individual sale").  Eventually you're selling 64-billion-piece packages and 128-billion-piece packages (where "billion" here is actually 1024\*1024\*1024).

This is the analogy for flash memory (SSD) as well as things like RAM.  You have a design for a single bit of data storage, then you copy/paste that and add a bit of control logic and you have a two-bit memory cell.  Then you copy/paste that and add a bit of control logic and you have a 4-bit memory cell.  Repeat that process a few dozen times and you may arrive at an 8 GB memory chip.  Put a few of those on a board with some control logic and you have a 64 GB drive.

******

The real key difference between these two setups is that with hard drives you have a blank slate on which you try to write as much as will fit, while with flash memory you're constructing the memory cells individually using a repeating pattern.

Question: How do smartphones that run multi-core cpus stay cool with such a compact design and zero airflow?
Answer: Most smartphone CPUs are ARM based, which are designed to run cool and use a small amount of energy.

Per Mhz, those ARM cpus will provide less computational than an x86 CPU of the same speed.  But the power consumption and heat generation will be much lower.

Question: How are EULAs legal in the United States if you can't return the software after you've "purchased" it?
Answer: I'm gonna answer this in a way that you don't want to hear, but its really the correct answer as of now:

EULAs are problematic for the courts.  There have not really been enough cases or strong decisions in either way to make it clear what the precedent or legality of them are and what is and isn't legal.

Courts know they are written by a team of lawyers and no one, even other lawyers can fully understand them. Yet they are written in a legal manner.  They also know that no one reads them, and even if you did, you wouldn't understand it, because it is written so you can't. Also there are tons of clauses and issues which are legal because you agree to them, but are crazy, restrictive and may go against various laws.

Courts have ruled vary narrowly, and on only specific cases so far, so there really isn't a general rule yet.  Until then, they will continue to be enforced because there really isn't anything saying otherwise.  It's a tough situation for everyone.

tl;dr: Courts haven't made them illegal yet, they are confused too, but its an issue that will need to be addressed and everyone knows it.

Question: Once a cyst or abcess is removed from the body, if left alone do they continue to grow?
Answer: If put in the appropriate solution. Otherwise no, it doesn't have the access to energy necessary for the cells to do anything, the cells making it up will die.

Question: Why does pain linger?
Answer: Depends on your pain tolerance as well. Somebody with a higher pain tolerance doesn't mean they feel less pain, it means they need more pain before it starts to affect them. If you have a low pain tolerance you will feel an injury a lot longer cause it will affect you. Higher pain tolerance will feel it less because like others has said your body will get used to it faster. 

I'm no scientist but as somebody with a high pain tolerance, this is just what I notice. I'll get an injury that others people say if it was them they would  e crying, I'm just like "it's just a flesh wound" (Monty python pun). But for real, unless it something serious like a broken bone (which I have many), something like a deep cut ill feel for the first minute but after that my brain just locks it out. I still "feel it", but it doesn't bother me, unless I hit it on something then it will hurt again for a minute. Which you could look at as your nerves telling you to stop damaging that part of the body cause it needs time to heal. 

So I'm guessing it depends on how your pain tolerance is, is how long pain will linger

Question: Why are some people more prone to get motion sickness compared to others?
Answer: I can answer why this happens, but not severity. 

So motion sickness happens when a particular set of circumstances arise. Lets first say that it requires mixed signals going to your brain to interpret. These signals happen when your brain is trying to understand what is happening. So for example, your on a boat and you see the horizon is more or less not moving. Your body, however, sends a signal from the inner ear that says: We're moving! The brain gets both of these signals and compares. When two signals disagree with each other, the brain then says: Something is wrong! Abort!


This creates a body reaction. This reaction, some say, came about during human evolution in response to eating spoiled foods. Why you ask? Well, if we eat spoiled or poisoned foods, the first thing those foods usually did to us was distort the signals our brain got from our senses ( hence why it happens now with distorted signals ). At first people died from this cause they did not know something was wrong. Over time, we developed a response to take care of it, causing sickness. Sickness was the easiest way for our body to react to a poison or foul substance, just evict it.


Again, I can't answer why some people get it, or even why some people get sea sick, but not car sick. The only thing I can theorize is that it's like pain tolerance. The nerves that sense signals might be more sensitive in people who get motion sickness more often. Or the circumstances of one situation are not as bad as another situation. It's also all in your head, and depends a bit on what the internal organs are feeling with their nerves during these situations. 


Home cures can work and have different successes with different people. There was a good Mythbusters episode on what cures motion sickness and goes over a little on how it is caused. 

Edit: Mythbusters Season 3: Episode 24: Seasickness kill or cure. You'll have to do some homework to find it though!
Edit #2: Asap Science on youtube on this as well: _URL_0_

Question: how  &  what happened to the Lehman Brothers?
Answer: OK.  So Lehman's was overly leveraged, meaning that when people gave them money, they could use that money as collateral on a loan to borrow more money.  That borrowed money would then be invested.  They are able to earn more profits doing this even after paying the interest on the loan.  The problem is that you need to keep a good ratio of actual money to borrowed money in order to be able to ride out a downturn.

Lehman was heavily invested in real estate and mortgages, the very assets that started the collapse.  They had borrowed $30 (or so) for every $1 they had on deposit.  That meant that a drop of 5% or so was enough to wipe them out entirely.  And that's what happened.

It never should have gone down that way.  In the past there were laws preventing them from borrowing so much compared to what they had in assets. But those laws were removed during deregulation, so this problem was allowed to exist.

Basically, they owed way more money than they had any hope of being able to pay back, so they went bankrupt.

Question: how Empire building nations historically justified what they were doing and why they were right or wrong?
Answer: It's all about the money. Colonies are where the money is, and money is all the justification anyone has ever needed to exploit untapped resources and perhaps exploit a few locals too.

American schools still teach a version of American history that depicts early American colonists as fleeing the tyrannies of Europe to start a new life of enlightened freedom in America. In fact most American colonies were European startup companies: the colonies had investors in Europe, they had a business plan, they had trade goods, they sold raw materials back to Europe, and they enticed people to join their colony for financial gains, "own your land, be your own boss" and all that, a very attractive proposition to lower income serf who couldn't afford to rent a farm from a feudal lord.

Behind every empire expansion there is financial gain. Sure the foot soldiers that fight the natives are told "You are doing God's work." and all that, but really it's about getting the gold, oil, and soil under the native's feet, and the natives either cooperate with the business plan or killing them is added to the cost of doing business.

So it's all about providing a stable environment in which to do business.

Question: What caused the switch from doctors doing home visits to the modern doctors office?
Answer: If you keep the doctor in one place, he can spend more of his valuable time actually seeing patients rather than driving between potentially distant patient houses. Having patients drive to the doctor means the doctor gets to see more patients.

Some countries (like France) still do paid doctor housecalls, but that isn't what most of their citizens do.

Question: why won't YouTube fix the issue of saving the video quality even though it's the number one complaint they get?
Answer: You mean when you start a new video? It's becomes HD every time I enter full screen.

Question: Why do movies look like soap operas on my MIL’s giant HD TV?
Answer: There is an adjustment for reducing judder, varies by brand name, that causes what you describe. Needs to be turned off.

Question: Polynesian people look very different from East Asian people, yet are hypothesized to have expanded out of East Asia only a few thousand years ago. How have the come to look so strikingly different, so quickly?
Answer: Polynesians are thought to be descended from Taiwanese aborigines or Formosan people of Taiwan, which are a different ethnic group from the Han Chinese which mostly populate Taiwan today.

Question: Is there a limit to the largest nuclear bomb mankind can create? If so, why?
Answer: The only limits we know of are cost and that a bomb will blow itself up before all the nuclear material can be used.

Question: What is the historical significane of coal in your stocking?
Answer: Its a Sicilian tradition.

It began with the legend of La Befana. Two of the Wise Men stopped at the home of La Befana to ask for directions on the night of Jesus' birth. They invited her to join them in going to see baby Jesus, but she refused. A while later, one of the shepherds asked for directions, and again invited La Befana to join him, but again she refused. Looking up into the sky, La Befana saw the bright star, and thought that she should go to find the stable. She gathered toys to give to baby Jesus. (The toys belonged to her own little one who had died.) Unfortunately, La Befana was unable to find the stable. Tradition says that even today, she continues to try to find baby Jesus. Every January 5th and the morning of January 6th (the feast of the Epiphany) La Befana tries to find the Christ child. Throughout her journey, she leaves toys along the way to the good children and she leaves coal for the naughty children.

Question: Why sometimes when I lie on my bed and breathe in I feel sharp pain at my left lung preventing me from breathing in fully?
Answer: That is a very good question. I have the same problem

Question: What does it mean if a person has a low centre of gravity?
Answer: Ok, so your mass is spread all over your body, pretty unevenly because of your limbs and different body parts. But from a physics standpoint, you still have a center of mass (like the middle of a balanced scale, or the middle of a horizontal seesaw). Center of gravity is the same thing since gravity is pulling on your center of mass. When you're standing up, your center of gravity has to be between your feet. Gravity is pulling down, put it's pulling down somewhere between your feet, and your feet can push back, keeping you up. If your center of gravity moves outside your feet, your feet can no longer cancel out the pull of gravity and you tip over.

Now, as for a *low* center of gravity, it's harder to tip over because your center of gravity is less likely to move outside your feet. If you start to tip over, your center of gravity will be outside your feet sooner if it's higher up your body. If you know some math, it's probably something like:

Tip over if: feet radius  <  sin(tip angle) * center of mass height

Now looking at this, or just thinking through center of mass, you can keep yourself from tipping over by spreading your feet out and increasing your feet radius, or by lowering your center of mass by crouching down.

Question: How do (online) scalpers get their tickets before everyone else, when everyone else seems to be struggling?
Answer: There are computer programs that will automatically buy the tickets quicker than any human can. The scalpers use these.

Question: What can high-profile law firms do to win cases that smaller law firms can't?
Answer: Larger top-tier/Magic Circle law firms pay their employed solicitors very well, and they're very large organisations. This gives it three main advantages. 

First, they have more people that they can put on the project (which achieves certain economies of scale/cost). 

Second, the people they have are likely the best lawyers around, because they are given more money for working with the big firms than the little firms. 

Third, and perhaps most importantly, the size of the firms allows the lawyers within to become more specialised. Many big legal matters are complicated, and your local attorney will have to know about things like contracts for goods or services or land, conveyancing, family law, basic criminal law, etc. That means your local attorney will necessarily have less experience and knowledge than a specialist in any one technical area because they won't have the time to devote to other things, like corporate insolvency, or intellectual property. They'll only know the basics well, where a lawyer from a big firm can have specialist knowledge of the area of law that's relevant.

Question: How do mutual fund fees work?
Answer: Your broker might charge you a fee to put money in or take it out of the fund, although a lot of the major brokers that offer their own funds (e.g. Fidelity, Schwab, Vanguard) offer many free funds. Then the fund has an "expense ratio"--you pay this percentage of your total investment every year. Think of it as going straight off the profit or loss for that year: if the fund's value went up 6%, but your expense ratio is 1%, your net gain is 5%. If the value went down 6%, you still have to pay the fee, so your loss is 7%. This means that expense ratios can make a big difference to your returns, and many people recommend finding mutual funds with low fees.

Some mutual funds have artificially low expense ratios because some of its expenses are subsidized by the parent company. They should disclose this. As an investor, that usually doesn't concern you.

Question: How do we know if Syria has handed over ALL their chemical weapons?
Answer: It's likely that any agreement that is made that requires them to give up their weapons would require them to allow very thorough investigations, and it's not easy to hide chemical weapons facilities like that, especially with satellites that could be tracking things.

Question: Why would IS want to blow up Mecca's Grand Mosque?
Answer: From discussions with friends and reading random things about the situation, what I gather is that they are intending to bring about the apocalypse.  Basically, and this is from my limited understanding of the situation, there are prophecies that say that the temple will fall before the end of days and a new one built in its place. This is one event in a chain of things that are supposed to happen when the world ends. I hope my assumptions and facts aren't too off base.

Question: Why do we as humans always have trouble lying without giving it away in some form of body language?
Answer: I'm not sure that it's true the people *always* give away their lies with some sort of bodily signal, but you're right that there are often signs. There are a few reasons for this. 

One is simply that lying is cognitively more difficult than telling the truth. Think about it this way, which is easier: reading from a script or improvising a scene? Furthermore, lying is sometimes not just fabrication, but often requires knowing the truth and purposefully saying something that is not the truth. This coupling of knowing the truth and speaking a lie forms cognitive dissonance and it requires significant brain power to do it quickly and well. This is why, contrary to common belief, people who are being interrogated are often *less* fidgity when they're lying because their brains are busy coming up with the lie. 

Another reason it's hard to not give away a lie is because we are social creatures, and lying is antisocial. Even if they're lying for a good reason, most people have an emotional aversion to it. On top of that, there's almost always the fear of getting caught while you're doing it, and that makes it emotionally stressful. Of course signs of emotion aversion and stress and not always signs of lying, as people can be stressed by interrogation (generally speaking, not just by govt officials) even when they're telling the truth. 

Edit: grammar

Question: Does the body absorb every calorie? If I overeat like crazy will some of it just 'flow through' me or will it all be stored?
Answer: Some calories remain in partially digested food that exits your body in stool. But not enough to counterbalance the energy equation. If you overeat a lot, *most* of it will be stored in adipose tissue. The human body is very good at banking up energy reserves for a rainy day.

Question: Why do I feel bad after masturbating?
Answer: It's a shift in chemicals, and I think it is heavily dependent on what kind of stimuli you were using as an aid. During an orgasm, a lot of different hormones and neurotransmitters get released into the brain such as serotonin, dopamine, noradrenaline, etc. Many of these chemicals actually do a really efficient job of suppressing your inhibitions.

What follows after the climax is a refractory, or normalisation, period. Think of it like either getting high or engaging in intensive exercise and then coming down. Those feelings of shame and disgust are an overcompensation of your brain re-adjusting itself.

The difference between the feeling after sex, and after masturbation, isn't so much cultural pressure which results in shame, as /u/geektrix suggests, but rather it's the presence of a partner(s). Engaging in such an intimate act with another person, keeps the 'love chemicals' firing, and so when you're coming down from the climax, it doesn't hit you as hard.

Whereas when you're masturbating, the only soft landing you really have, is a close up of someone's ass hole, or a guy with a 12 inch schlong slapping his bell end on the person's forehead. 

That isn't the only reason, but it's the most common and simplest one.

Question: Can someone explain what FEMA camps are, and why people are so afraid of them?
Answer: Many people are afraid that FEMA may eventually lock up people just for disagreeing with the government, ala political prisoners or dissidents.

Question: Auditing the Federal Reserve
Answer: > Don't we already get transcripts 5 years later?

More than that. The fed is audited: internally, by the GAO, and by an outside firm, usually ~annually.

On top of that, the head of the Fed reports directly to Congress bi-annually.

You can access those here:
_URL_0_

The transcripts are just things like FOMC meetings. The audits include all of their financial assets etc.

 > Is it just for conspiracy theorists?

There's 3 people who want to "audit the Fed": conspiracy theorists, regular people who don't understand how the Fed works (unfortunately, the way it's set up makes it look shady to the average person), and people in Congress who want more direct control.

 > Would the Federal Reserve be politicized by congress?

Yes, almost definitely, which is why it was created (mostly) independent in the first place, to avoid those pressures. The current audit the fed movement is by people who want more politicization (currently, it tends to be people who disliked/distrusted the Fed's "easymoney" response to the 2008 crisis)

Question: What's the whole issue with Hobby Lobby?
Answer: The Justices held that under the 1993 Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) that certain for-profit corporations were able to hold religious beliefs and could apply to be exempt from providing select contraceptive coverage mandated in the ACA (Obamacare). The Democrats/Left have built a narrative around the decision that it is another example of the right-wing's "war on women" and that the decision is essentially allowing bosses to impose their personal beliefs on their workers. People seem to be responding to that narrative and its obviously upsetting some people.

Question: Why is gambling illegal? (in america)
Answer: The reason its not legal in most states is the assumption that it attracts crime and other undesirable elements to the area.  While casinos and other forms of gambling are very profitable for those running it, and the state that taxes it, all that money is coming out of the pockets of average people, increasing the possibility that people will gamble themselves into debt and turn to loan sharks and the like, some of which have ties to criminal organizations.  The feeling of most lawmakers and voters tends to be that its just not worth it, since there are other ways increase revenue that don't come with these potential side effects.

Question: How is masochism possible when pain isn't supposed to be pleasing, but warning us?
Answer: Hi there.

To put it simply, we cant control pain itself but we *can* control how we respond to it. Thats a physical reason.

Psychologically, you cant really make many broad generalizations about masochists, or anyone really. Some masochists endure because it reminds them they are alive and helps them to focus on being content with being alive, some genuinely enjoy pain itself and actively force themselves to regard it as pleasure through small incremental steps, some enjoy the state of numbness one can achieve when so much pain is inflicted that the area just doesnt get stimulated by anything afterwards.

Question: Why do I feel like I have to have my brain and mind be constantly stimulated throughout the day, from when I wake up until I go to bed?
Answer: ELI5: If you feel the quest for knowledge so bad. Why don't you work it out for yourself?

Question: How do pathologists tolerate the odor of decomposition?
Answer: People can get used to pretty much anything. I'm a medic and smell decomposition frequently. It stinks, but I'll take that over C.diff any day.

Question: Why are people allowed to be racist towards their own race?
Answer: Most people are not self-hating, so when you say something about your own race, it's much more likely to be construed either as a joke, or as a constructive criticism. Saying something about another race will sound much less like constructive criticism.

"We Chinese have a bad reputation for being boorish tourists, and we need to examine our own behavior in order to treat foreign destinations with the proper respect they deserve."

"Those Chinese have a bad reputation for being boorish tourists, and they need to examine their behavior in order to treat our tourist destinations with the proper respect they deserve."

See how each sentence sounds?

Question: Why do we sweat, even when not being physically active, at 30ºC?
Answer: your body temp is 37° because it's permanently cooled down. you're burning sugar in your cells continuously, increasing your body temperature.
unfortunately your organs are very sensitive to overheating, so your body must make sure that your temp doesn't raise (except for fever).

imagine a running engine in a standing car. it produces heat all the time, and if you don't cool the engine actively it will overheat very fast.

Question: Why are eggs/biscuits/pancakes considered to be breakfast food, and not normally eaten during other meals?
Answer: All of those things are eaten at any time of the day.

Eggs are present in damn near everything. It's true that in western cultures a fried or scrambled egg is traditionally reserved for the first meal of the day, but in other cuisines eggs are featured players in all sorts of meals. Poached eggs, for example, are common ingredients in salads in the French tradition, and in the United States where people are generally less inclined to eat runny eggs, hard-boiled eggs are substituted.

A fried egg is a very common ingredient in bánh mì, a type of Vietnamese sandwich. The Aussies use them as hamburger toppings.

As for biscuits, you're clearly not from the American south! Biscuits are a common addition to every meal. In general, in the American south quick breads — breads leavened by chemistry — are preferred over yeast breads, and the biscuit plays the same part that the traditional yeast dinner roll does in other parts of the United States. (The reason for the difference comes down to agriculture. Wheat grown in the northern United States is "harder," containing more protein than wheat grown in the warmer southern states. Hard wheat is better for glutenous, chewy breads, while soft wheat is better for quick breads.)

And as for pancakes, consider the Chinese moo shu pancake or the French crêpe … or hell, the *tortilla* for that matter. In many cultures, unleavened pancakes are staple foods, or at least not relegated to breakfast. Leavened pancakes not that different from American ones are common in England, where they're eaten as dessert foods. In Scotland, they're eaten for tea, in basically the same way scones are.

So really, it's more a question of why *you* only eat those foods for breakfast. You're missing out on a whole world of deliciousness.

Question: What happens when the US government proves a monopoly or oligopoly exists? How is the law enforced?
Answer: Contrary to popular belief, monopolies and oligopolies are not illegal.

What is illegal is using monopoly powers in specifically described ways to stifle competition.  For example, selling goods at less than cost to drive a competitor out of business is illegal, as is colluding with other companies to fix prices or territory.

If a company is caught doing one of those things, it can face legal action.

Question: Like most people, I do not suffer from OCD. So why do I experience compulsions?
Answer: One of my best friends has very severe OCD and I asked him once what the difference is. He says that everybody has obsessions and everybody has compulsions, but most people's obsessions and compulsions are separate. You have a preferred light switch and you are compelled to use it, but you do not obsess over the switch when you are not interacting with it. Or, you might obsess and have rules for people in your space about which switch to use, but you do not feel compelled to interfere when something goes wrong. He says that in his brain he is compelled to obsess' and 'obsessed with his compulsions.' In other words, the two are connected circularly in his mind and he cannot disengage from the object even when the interaction is complete.

As to why we have these obsessions and compulsions, evolution has a strong preference for keeping things the same or changing very slowly. If you know that 'on' is 'up' and 'off' is 'down' then your brain seeks to apply this principle universally even once you have learned of a particular exception. This tendency towards sameness is very practical - your body is a finely tuned piece of equipment. If you were to randomly introduce a single genetic mutation it has a much greater change of doing harm then good. Thus, we benefit from all changes being very minor so that even if the change is bad it is not overwhelmingly bad.

Question: What are the historical reasons for which english cuisine is usually regarded as "bad" whereas french cuisine is usually regarded as "good"? (at least i think this is how we see it in the US...
Answer: They were culturally different. Also under Napoleonic rule, France controlled almost all of continental Europe (but obviously not Britain) which allowed French chefs to experiment with ingredients from all around the continent. 


The short answer is simply that French chefs had the ingredients available and the cultural passion to elevate cuisine to higher levels than Britain had.  It's not about skill it's about generations of tradition and availability of ingredients and culture. 



Brits love their curry though!  Can find much better curry and Asian food in general in Britain than in France.  


Unrelated side note: Was in London last summer. Went past a noodle bar called "Phat Phuc"

Question: How do third party vendors on Amazon, Newegg, Best Buy, etc get their inventory?
Answer: They typically buy direct from the manufacturer. Most products will provide discounts if purchased in bulk. And if you don't have a storefront you have much lower operational expenses and can reduce prices even lower.

With their size they can reduce their margins to make their profits on volume.

Question: Why do different languages have different names for different countries?
Answer: The main sources are:

1. Language change: in year N, I call Country X "X" and you also call Country X "X", but 1000 years later our descendants speak languages that have moved in different directions.  A simple example is how "Roma", spelled with an *e* in English but pronounced the same way, became a one-syllable word when the English stopped pronouncing the final *-e* on all English words.

2. Playing Telephone: every time a word gets passed from one language to another it gets trampled a little, since the sounds in different languages aren't 1:1.  So you go from "Qin" (Chinese) to "Śina" (Sanskrit) to "Sina" (Latin).  As the branches go in different directions you get weirder and weirder variations.

3. Different kinds of name: Countries can be named after the geographic location, after the ethnic group that inhabits the region, a descriptive feature, or after some political regime.  So that already gives you at least four options; but then, you might have a region inhabited by a group of related tribes, where each neighbor calls the whole population by the name of the closest tribe; or a region ruled by several dynasties, where each neighbor calls the region by the name of a different dynasty.  The classic example: the Allemanni, the Teutones, the Germanii, who each gave their names to the whole region whence they came.

Anyway, "Nippon" is the Wu pronunciation of "Land of the Rising Sun", which the Japanese adopted as their own; but the Min pronunciation is basically "Jaypon", and the Southern Chinese merchants who operated all over Southeast Asia were the ones who gave us a lot of Asian words.  (Also "tea", from Min "de" rather than Mandarin "cha")

The Latin form of "Scotland" is *Scotia* (or more properly, Scotland is the English form of Scotia, since our word "Scot" is also from Latin); in French, initial clusters of *sc-* were always replaced with *esc-* and then *éc-*, while the -tio- or -tia- usually softened to and S.

Question: Why are humans "human-sized"?
Answer: Evolution isn't conscious, intelligent design. It doesn't strive to make the perfect organism that just the right height and size - whatever species manage to have viable offspring is an evolutionary success, and some end up better than others, thrive in their enviroment and breed more. The average human is the size of the average human because those are the genes that have been passed along for hundreds of thousands of years.

We've grown taller and taller as of late due to a vast improvement of diet - more people can eat their fill and thus reach their maximum potential height, whereas malnourishment previously stunted many people's growth.

So, why the 5-6 foot range then? It's a good enough size, really. Small enough to stay energy efficient in times in hunger, big enough to chase after prey and kill them.

Question: Why does the word for 'mum/mother' sound so similar across nearly all languages?
Answer: Äiti, haha, nënë, walida, unitsi, pia, hooyo...

Your premise ("nearly all languages") is obviously false.

Related languages, however, are likely to share some words - especially words that would be very old. English is related to a *lot* of languages through the Proto-Indo-European root language, from which *mother* derives, and from which Latin, Germanic, and Slavic languages get the word (and those three families cover the vast majority of modern Europe).

Question: How do fruit flies "magically" appear?
Answer: Fun fact: "Back in the day" people used to think that animals "magically appeared"; this concept was known as [spontaneous generation](_URL_0_). It was commonly thought that if a pile of dirty clothes was left laying around for too long it would spawn rats.

Question: what are the silica gels they put in new clothes and why are they telling me not to put it in my mouth?
Answer: It dries stuff out. It is apparently an irritant but I don't see anything super dangerous in the [Material Safety Data Sheet](_URL_0_). It will not be pleasant though.

Question: Why does eating a lemon make your teeth hurt?
Answer: Lemon juice is moderately acidic, and if your teeth have metal fillings that can set up an electric circuit. Biting aluminum foil does the same thing, but I don't advise doing either of those things.

Question: How come the third rail on subway systems doesn't short circuit when it gets wet?
Answer: 1. Water on the rail itself doesn't short circuit, as the rail is more conductive than the water.

2. The water doesn't bridge between the third rail and a suitable ground. It might drip off, but it won't form a continuous path like a wire very easily.

3. Water is an awful conductor, so outside of very high voltages such as lightning strikes, it doesn't tend to carry a charge very far.

Question: How exactly does a transformator transform energy to a lower voltage?
Answer: Do you mean a transformer? The EMF induced in the secondary coil is proportional to the rate of change of magnetic flux through the coil. More loops means a higher magnetic field (and therefore flux) inside the secondary coil. Less coils means less flux and therefore less induced EMF.

So in a step-down transformer, the primary coil has more loops than the secondary coil.

Question: Why is it legal for a police officer to lie to me about the law ?
Answer: An example would be a police officer telling a person that filming them is illegal.

Question: Seriously, how do cell phones work?!
Answer: First of all it's not instant. It's something like one twentieth of a second from the time you speak until the other person hears you, and it depends on how far away you are from each other. It takes time to transmit information, so no kind of communication is instantaneous.

Step by step here is a basic overview. If there's any specific part of this you are curious about I can explain more.

The sound of your voice goes into the microphone.

The microphone converts these sounds into electrical signals.

A part in the phone called a ADC converts these signals into a stream of numbers.

A tiny but very fast computer in the phone does lots of math with the numbers to process the signal, compress the information so there's not too much to transmit, and package it into a format that the phone company can understand. 

A radio in the phone transmits these numbers onto the airwaves.

The nearest cell tower receives the radio signal.

A computer at the cell tower then retransmits the numbers, in the form of light waves, into cables that run all over the country. Lots of fancy equipment in big air conditioned facilities all over the world pass this information along to its destination. 

At the other end, the reverse process occurs until the sound you made finally exits the other person's phone through its speaker.

Question: Why is it sometimes a popular connotation to assume that attractive people are less intelligent than others?
Answer: 2 Primary reasons:

Anecdotal evidence, people thinking instances of it and generalizing.

Compensation thinking... people seem to have an unfounded belief that strengths come with weaknesses. If someone's attractive, they must be stupid...or the opposite, if someone is smart they must be socially inept. The idea that some people are good without major drawbacks is uncomfortable to some people, it makes them feel better to assume the rich guy is unhappy or cruel or the pretty girl is an idiot.

Question: Why are American movies called by their literal names in other countries?
Answer: Maybe the word "Anchorman" doesn't exist in those languages? That would be the only reason I can think of

Question: why, if at all, is Putin a bad guy?
Answer: Vladimir Putin has made Russia less democratic--he and his party intimidate political opponents and are suspected of several assassinations, and he has skirted around the term limits set by the Russian constitution by exchanging positions with Medvedev.

On the international scene, he has behaved very aggressively, using military force to conquer parts of Georgia and Ukraine. These actions have not been good for Russia, which is reeling from the international sanctions that have been imposed on the country. So he's not even very good at being an autocrat.

Question: Should ELI5 temporarily hide comment scores? We want your feedback.
Answer: I would be in favour of not implementing this.

For the most part, I see posts upvoted when they are correct and give interesting additional information, and downvoted when they are spam or wrong. There are a few cases where this doesn't happen, but I would say that it is more advantageous for a poster to be able to look at the sole answer on their question, see that it is at -1 and conclude that it is likely wrong or not fully answering their question.

I don't know the figures on how long the majority of threads stay active, but the ones that I normally answer are on the new page and don't stay alive after dropping of that first screen. An hour delay on seeing comment voting would be too long for this in my opinion.

Question: the Ohm rating on guitar amplifiers and why it's important...
Answer: Imagine two bicycles, side by side. The first bike has the brakes stuck on. You can pedal it and move it, but it takes a lot of effort to do so.

Then you hop onto the second bike. You expect it to be the same as the first bike, so you put a lot of power into pedalling. However, because this bike's resistance is so much lower, you get startled at how fast you zoom off, and lose control of the bike.

Ohms are a unit for measuring electrical resistance, kind of like friction in the physical world. The first bike had a lot of resistance, so I could analogously say it had a high Ohm value.

Question: why do some people's abs appear bloated or rounded?
Answer: Growth hormone.

Bodybuilders take them to get bigger but it doesn't just make muscles bigger. Organs grow too so their guts is basically pushing outwards behind the abs. Some will eventually need surgery because their insides tries to come out from their belly button.

Question: How traffic lights work?
Answer: In most cases they use a metal sensor in the ground that's under your car when you stop at a red light, that is connected to the streetlights to let them know there is a car there. At four way intersections as soon as you get on top of this sensor it tells the light that your way of traffic is the next to receive a green light. In this way it prioritizes the directions that have heavy traffic flow.

Other types of traffic lights can be ones that are just set on a timer and switches at a set interval regardless of traffic flow. 

Edit: Im fairly certain i messed the uses of "there" in my response.

Question: why we sometimes yell or make obnoxious noises when we stretch
Answer: Everyone else in this thread is being mean, the reason we do it I would imagine is the same reason people moan during sex. That stretch feels fucking awesome

Question: How do microtomes work? How can a blade be physicslly manipulated to cut a slide a few micrometres or nanometres thick?
Answer: The below freezing temperatures and frozen substrate that the tissue is embedded in helps considerably to keep things together. The problem arises when you have tissue that contains a high amount of fat.  The fat doesn't freeze at the same temperature, and makes cutting thin slices more difficult.

Question: What is a random walk?
Answer: Industrial Engineer here:

I'm going to be talking about measurements of say the length of a part. You know your part should be 12 inches long. We IEs have tools to measure that this number remains, on average, 12 inches. One of our most powerful tools is the [Estimate Weight Moving Average(EWMA)](_URL_0_) control chart. In this plot, we look for non random walks. Let's say that your 12 inch average all of a sudden becomes 12.1 inches. Most normal tests of quality will say that each part measurement is still acceptable due to this small shift; we won't conclude that these individual observations are out of control. The EWMA, however, takes into account previous measurements, so non random walks can be detected. 

[This figure](_URL_1_) is a great example of a non random walk. At observation 15, our average probably shifted to 12.1, so each new measurement adds a fraction to the old measurement which was adding a fraction, so on and so on until we hit the upper or lower control line (dashed line in this figure) and we then conclude that our average is incorrect. 

EDIT: just realized I never ELI5'd. A non random walk is any upward or downward trend with some non random process behind it. In my example, the non random reason for the walk was the shift of the average from 12 to 12.1. It could really be anything, but this movement should be caused by an underlying reason, not random chance

Hopefully this helps!

Question: How does the pump at the gas station know when to turn off when your gas tank is full?
Answer: If you look down the nozzle of a gas pump, you'd find there is a smaller tube, about the size of a straw, within the main tube. Gasoline goes through the main tube, the smaller one allows air to escape from the tank as it's displaced by the gasoline being pumped in. When liquid reaches this tube, it triggers the shut-off, as the level of gasoline must have reached the nozzle, which sticks a safe amount into the fuel filler tube.

In certain conditions, similar to when you swallow and choke because it "went down the wrong tube", this may falsely trigger the shutoff even when the tank isn't full. Better to false stop than overfill, so no big deal.

If it shuts off, and you keep pumping the handle to try and get a few more drops in, all you're doing is pumping gas back into that return tube. You're returning the gas to them and paying for it. Stop doing that.

Question: If boiling water kills all the bacteria, where do the dead bacteria go?
Answer: Nowhere. They stay in the water. The only difference is that if they're dead they pass right through you, whereas if they're alive, they're more inclined to infect you with whatever.

Question: How can water from the Gulf of Mexico keep Norway from being covered in ice and snow?
Answer: The warm water from the gulf of mexico gets carried up towards Norway and pulls the temperature up. The air gets heated by the ground and water. When the water is warm enough to keep ice from forming then you get that effect. One thing you'd immediately think is how doesn't the water cool by then? Its due to the sheer scale of water. Its extremely difficult to cool that much water and it makes it up there cooler, but still warm enough to keep Norway thawed.

Question: Why is the history of math so separated from math itself in education? Wouldn't it be more interesting if this weren't the case?
Answer: Because it doesn't teach you math. 

Flip it around. Imagine you are studying literature but before you can get to the actual writing you have to spend 20 percent of the class on linguistics. Imagine you are studying medicine but spend part of the class learning the mechancs about how an mri works. Imagine taking a mechanics class and learning about the life and times of Henry ford. 

It's not relevant. It might inspire you but it doesn't teach you. 

But if it interests you, the Internet is available. _URL_0_

Edit:  OP originally was talking about differential equations (college/university math).  My answer would be different in the context of elementary or pre-calculus high school math.

Question: How the illegal 'Hawala System' works for laundering money?
Answer: Hawala as Underground Banking
The very features that make hawala an attractive avenue for legitimate patrons, also make it attractive for illegitimate uses. Thus, hawala is frequently referred to as underground banking. This is because money launderers and terrorists also take advantage of this system to transfer funds from one location to another. Hawala provides anonymity in its transactions as official records are not kept, and the source of money that is transferred cannot be traced. In addition, corrupt politicians and the wealthy who would prefer to evade taxes use hawala to anonymize their wealth and activities.

[Since hawala transfers are not routed through banks and, hence, not regulated by governmental and financial bodies, many countries have been le](_URL_0_)d to re-examine their regulatory policies in regard to hawala. Some countries have made hawala illegal due to the absence of bureaucracy in the system. For example, in India, the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) and the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) are the two major legislative systems that deter the use of hawala in the country.

Question: What actually happens after a single use of LSD? I've heard some of the details but I'm looking for more unbiased answers. I want to try it but not sure if it's worth it in the long run.
Answer: LSD alters your reality. Hence, you will "see" sounds, such as music. You will "smell" sights, such as the blue of a rock.  This doesn't sound realistic outside of tripping, but it is your reality on the drug.

I used LSD in my youth, probably around a dozen times. It is essential that you not do it alone, and that you have a sober, non-tripping person there to guide the trip. Usually, this is to keep you safe, and to help you if you are having a bad trip.

You have very little control over your tripping. You do not know if you are going to have a good one, or a bad one.  A bad one can be very bad, worse than a nightmare, and you are living it in real time. Some folks are permanently affected by a bad trip, but that is not that common. But it does happen.

Let me combine a couple of factors of good trips I've had, then I will explain the bad trip that ended my LSD experiments. Keep in mind the average trip lasts three to four hours, sometimes longer.  You have little to no control. Once you are in, you are IN until it's over.  There is nothing that can stop your trip that I know of. Perhaps they can sedate you until it's over, but I do not know anyone who has done that.

The first time I had a good guide. I wanted to be outside so we walked. Two of us were tripping, one was clean/sober.  As we walked, I could "see" music floating out of houses into the street and turning into exquisite little flowers on the telephone lines. As we walked there were dozens of these impossibly perfect little flowers floating about and landing everywhere.  They were so beautiful I couldn't stop staring at them. (In reality, there is nothing there, this is your trip).

Another time I was camping, it was nighttime.  After a very long time of being hypnotized by the campfire and it's utter perfection, and the song it was singing to just me, I reached out to touch it. My safe person immediately stopped this and redirected me away from the fire. We walked down to the river edge and I wanted to be in the river, to feel its silky coolness, to talk to fish (this is a trip, remember) and to know a river god. (It sounds silly outside of a trip).  My safe person kept me in the shallow water and away from rocks and deeper water.  I wanted to float in the water and feel the stars, so my safe person lay me in very shallow water and held my head while I communicated with stars.

The bad trip: I was at a party and took the acid.  First,my safe person left and left me in the hands of someone I didn't know, just as the trip was starting, so I had anxiety. I'm in until the end of the trip, and now I have to trust a person I never met to keep me safe. Then the person started drinking and kind of abandoned me. I was left in the bathroom where I became enthralled with swirling toilet water (you never know what you will find fascinating) and watched the toilet flush endlessly (yes I was alone).  Then someone started pounding on the door, wanting the restroom, and I got very anxious. Not wanting to see the person at the door, I wanted to unlock it and then climb out the window. Except the window was on the fifth floor.  The person who came into the restroom stopped me from climbing out the window (see why a safe person is necessary?).  They were kind and helped me to another person, a stranger who promised to help.  The party was very loud and had a live band that had a very loud drummer. All of a sudden it was overload and the music became a hell of demon types and the voices of the party goers felt like shrieks of demons. Everything felt very dark and ugly. The cloth of the clothes I was wearing felt like gooey fire (makes no sense, but tripping does that) and I started tearing off my clothes.  Yet another person help me get into a bathrobe and feel better.  But by then I was scared. The room I was changing in felt like a prison and I felt I was never going to be released and it was a terrifying feeling (no logic, but tripping). I cried and cried. The person passed me again to someone who wanted to walk with me, but someone else stopped them from taking me outside in a bathrobe and not having a good trip.  I tried to drink a cold drink (7up I think) and I couldn't figure out how to swallow and choked on it, causing me to vomit. I felt I was dying and started crying for help. No one is going to call 911 for a bad trip in the middle of a party.  The voices kept screaming in demon tones, the music was excruciating and dark and thunderous, the smells were frying my brain, I couldn't find a safe person, I was vomiting and terribly thirsty, I was not dressed in my clothes and I had no idea (on my trip) where the hell I was. I did not have the ability to call for help any other way than to pathetically sit on the floor and grabbing people walking by and pleading.  Occassionally someone would sit with me and try and talk me to a better space. Somewhere in there someone tried to kiss me and I felt like I was being eaten by a snake.  It was  a really awful couple of hours, tortuous.

Eventually I started to come down. Around dawn, the trip was completely over. I showered (in a strangers home, but I'm covered in vomit and sweat and spilled 7up), dressed in my own clothes and went home.

Never again.

I hope that answered some questions.  I know there are others that can share their experiences. I hope they share the good AND the bad, because it can be really bad, even worse than what I described. If you are an anxious type person, that can affect your trip. The changes in your body from anxiety more easily send you towards a bad experience.  You really need to be feeling pretty easy. You should not be drinking or mixing other drugs, even weed.  Your safe  person should have experience with tripping, so they recognize where you are in your trip.

Be safe.

tl;dr...there are good trips, there are bad trips. The good are very good, the bad are very bad. Be safe.

Question: Why does smoking a cigarette feel so much better after sex or a big meal than it does normally?
Answer: Troll answer: You are 5. You shouldn't be smoking.

Question: Why are some foods like eggs or pancakes considered breakfast foods in the US?
Answer: You can feed your family whatever you want whenever you want.  When I was a kid we did "breakfast for dinner" about once a week.  Usually bacon, eggs, and biscuits.

Question: Why are nerdiness and eyeglasses synonymous with one another? Is there a tangible link between intelligence and bad eyesight?
Answer: The connection is the other way around, glasses, especially very thick framed one, tend to make you the target of bullying, as they are an easy target to ridicule and you are very helpless without them, making them ideal to steal and mock you with.  
(They also symbolise a flaw in your, your non-perfect eyesight, which is exploited in the same vein)  

Being ridiculed can make for a recluse and that can make people turn towards things that doesn't involve other people, like learning or video games.

Question: How did the moon get there?
Answer: The favored explanation for the formation of the moon is the "giant impact hypothesis", which posits that during the early formation of the solar system (about 4-4.5 billion years ago), a Mars-sized object called Theia formed at earth's L4/L5 lagrange points (same distance as Earth from the sun, but located 60 degrees in front of and behind the earth, in the same orbital plane).  Gravitational tugs from Venus/Jupiter eventually sent Theia crashing into the young Earth at an oblique angle (a head-on glance would have destroyed earth), ejecting a huge amount of material into space that relatively quickly (less than a century) coalesced into the moon.

Question: What does a virus or bacteria gain from making its host sick?
Answer: Bacteria and viruses don't necessarily want their host sick, or even dead. Complications happen when the virus is in an organism it's not supposed to be in, and that organism isn't equipped to handle the virus. Rats carried the plague and were doing just fine, but when they jumped shipped and infected humans, they wiped out millions in the 14th century. It's the same with the influenza virus, and other viruses. Their goal is to multiply within their host for a while and then spread. Sometimes though, killing your host and exposing its fluids to other organisms is the best way to migrate.

Question: Nearly every time you're going to download something, you're told your download will start in a few seconds, or alternately you can click a link to start it instantly. What's the purpose of this?
Answer: It is convenient to have one computer drive the website, and another be just for downloading files, so it isn't unusual for the web server to hand off control to the file server.

However, a lot of older browsers, and browsers with certain security settings are unable to execute the handoff properly, so a link is provided as a backup.

Question: How is it safe and/or Legal for cops to drive while using the laptop in their patrol car but texting and driving is illegal?
Answer: Few laws are absolute  &  many of them have specific exemptions.  On duty police officers are allowed to ignore many traffic laws in the line of duty - speeding, running red lights, etc. - this is just another one.

It's assumed that police are professional drivers  &  have received proper training as to when it's safe  &  appropriate to use electronic devices.

Question: What happens when my memory is jogged?
Answer: The brain is a pattern-matching computer. You see letters and words, for example, and your brain turns them into sounds and ideas. You see faces, and your brain turns them into identities. Every pattern you recognize connects to some memory, and encountering the pattern causes you to recall that memory.

The memories you jogged were stored in your long term memory the whole time, but you hadn't encountered the patterns that would unlock them. When you went back and read them, the words and ideas acted as the pattern (in the same way as a face or a symbol) that triggered the release of the long-term memory associated with the pattern.

The easiest way to recall a memory is to poke your brain with an electrode. This triggers any memory regardless of the pattern associated with it. The hard part here is triggering a *specific* memory.

As to whether you could remember *anything*, yes, and no. All the memories in your long-term storage are connected to *some* impulse, so you could theoretically remember anything stored in there. But on the other hand, there are many things you have seen or encountered which are *not* stored in your long-term memory. The human brain has only limited storage, and more importantly you only have limited focus, which means you only take in a fraction of the details that you could potentially perceive at any one time. These details are lost forever because they never make it into long-term memory.

Question: NAT and Port Forwarding
Answer: They are two different things, but they are related. When you use NAT, all devices behind the NAT device will appear as a single IP address. The outside world sees it as one thing.

So, for someone outside trying to communicate with something behind the NAT device, it has no way of communicating specifically with that device. All it knows is that one public IP address.

To fix this, you have port forwarding. What port forwarding does is tells the NAT device that all inbound communication on a specific port is meant for a specific device behind the NAT. So when it sees an inbound communication on that port, it will automatically forward that traffic to the private IP address you specified.

Question: How does my brain start paying attention to someone moments *before* they say something unusual?
Answer: you have sorta short term memory for words, have you ever ran into situation where somebody asks HAVE YOU BEEN LISTENING! and you werent, yet can say what they said.

Question: Why does a hot shower make my skin dry?
Answer: Moisture evaporates very readily from the skin, but a certain amount of moisture is retained by skin oils (technically called sebum) and a hot shower can wash away these oils.  Skin moisturizer can replace them.  I personally use Vaseline skin lotion, but only for the palms of my hands, the rest of my skin does OK on its own.

Question: Why is "bury" pronounced as if theres an "a" in in it? Like "berry".
Answer: Regional dialects.

In my region the U is pronounced and we say "Burr-ee"  I've also heard "Be-urr-ee"

Question: Why is the sound of someone snoring so annoying when we're trying to sleep?
Answer: I imagine it's at least partly because the sound is irregular. Traffic, air conditioners, and rain are very rhythmic. Predictable sensory input is input that our brain ignores, which is why you only smell things for a short period of time. Snoring is jerky and hard to predict so you never adjust.

I could also be wrong.

Question: G20 Hamburg summit, what it is, and why are people protesting it?
Answer: The G20 is an organization of the 20 most powerful world leaders.  They get together to talk about the issues that face the globe, touching on things from trade, to military action, to global climate change.  

Protestors are protesting for various reasons.  

- Some are angry that the US backed out of the Paris Climate Accord. 

- Some are angry that the world leaders aren't doing enough to tackle climate change.

- Some are angry about specific trade policies.

- Some are angry about capitalism in general. 

- Some are protesting human rights violations by certain G20 leaders.  

I could probably list 1,000 more reasons why people are protesting, but I think you get the point.  The reasons for protesting span nearly all areas of the political climate, and there isn't necessarily a specific reason.

Question: Why is it that some parents children look extremley alike, and other parents children don't even look related?
Answer: recessive genes my friend. My dad is 5'9", white, green eyes and brown hair, my mom is 5'5", black, hazel eyes and "burgundy" hair. I am 6'1" white blonde hair blue eyes. My D-grandma had a bunch of brothers over 6 foot and my M-grandma has blonde hair and blue eyes. Family portraits look hilarious, white guy and black lady had a porteguese boy, aryan boy, and mexican girl.

Question: why does the site of a shot, such as flu or TDAP, hurt for hours after? It's not even a large needle.
Answer: The needle isn't the issue, the liquid injected into your muscle capsule is. It can be a matter of some pressure or discomfort, bruising and the like, or it can be a localized reaction to the substances being injected, sometimes an immune response. 

If someone stuck you with a needle and injected nothing, it would literally just be a pinprick.

Question: How does a bidets work?
Answer: Hi sir I've used a bidet.

Most bidets these days are not things you sit on top of and have them lightly splash your anus while sitting down.

Most of them are hand held sprayers that you aim yourself.  The water pressure is usually quite high, relative to a shower.

If a shower can get dirt off of you, a bidet can certainly spray off that little bit of poop.

I find them really uncomfortable to use compared to toilet paper... but at the same time my butt is cleaner.... so there's that.

Question: How did worms get inside a mango seed if it didn't make any holes on the outside.
Answer: They burrow inside before the seed is fully matured.

 >  The newly hatched larva is about 1 mm long and burrows through the pulp and into the seed where it will remain until it becomes an adult. Minimum time from hatching to seed penetration is one day. There are at least five larval instars in Hawaii. Larvae can penetrate the seed coat easier on younger fruit of all varieties, and apparently find entry impossible on mature seed of some varieties (e.g., Itamaraca). As the fruits mature, the tunnels are eliminated and it is not possible to distinguish between infested and non-infested seeds, unless they are cut open (Pertanian 2004).

Assuming we're talking about mango seed weevil larvae.

Question: Why cant we just make up a number when we divide by 0 by 0
Answer: You could define it to be anything you want, but such a definition isn't very useful. Suppose that you decided to define multiplication in such a way that zero has an inverse. Then for any number x you would have:

x=x\*1 (multiplication by 1 has no effect)

 =x\*(0\*0^-1 ) (0*0^-1 =1 by assumption)

 =(x\*0^-1 )\*0 (multiplication is associative)

 =0 (anything multiplied by zero is zero)

Therefore, if you allow zero to have an inverse, then either the only number in your set is zero (which is not particularly interesting), or you lose some of the other useful properties of addition and multiplication on real numbers.

Question: what is that noise we hear when we put our ear in an empty shell?
Answer: Cupped shapes focus noises. Think of the megaphone shape on an old phonograph, your ear, an owls face, or just turn a song on your phone, make a cup with your hand, put it between the speaker and your face and you'll hear the volume go up.

That shell is esentially that same shape. Background noises, like wind, air conditioners, distant talking, etc all get caught up in the cup shape and bounce around and mixing together into a static noise. They are then focused forward all exiting in the same direction towards you ear.

Short answer, your amplifying mixed background noise into a focused beam directly towards your ear.

Question: How can humans forget the benefits from vaccination?
Answer: What do they gain?  Attention and money.  The majority of the anti-vax movement was started by Andrew Wakefield in an effort to promote his business venture of selling nutritional supplements as a replacement for vaccinations.  Then the pornstar-turned-selfproclaimed-medical-expert Jenny McCarthy started attention whoring when her son was diagnosed autistic.  Despite the fact that both of these people have been thoroughly discredited or have retracted their statements, people who got suckered by the anti-vax industry don't want to admit that they're wrong, so they just double-down on the derp.

Keep in mind that your average person is an idiot and that a non-trivial portion of the population believes in flat earth, moon landing hoaxes, chemtrails, and fluoride mind control.

Question: Why to big rigs have different types of tires on the FRONT and REAR of the truck?
Answer: If you want another example, go to the drag strip. Even the street muscle cars swap out their rear tires for "slicks" which are big, specially formulated, and with little to no tread for racing purposes. When you don't have to worry about rotating your tires, you can tailor the kinds of tires for the application to increase performance or reduce cost. In the case of the race car, they get better performance. In the case of the big rig, the front wheels are probably cheaper because they don't need to be as big and tough as the rear ones which are supporting all the weight and engine power. Also, unlike a 4 wheeled passenger car, the big rig has many tires and the front wheels are not as important for maintaining grip and stopping power, they are kind of just there for steering. 

In fact, many people, including myself, have staggered wheels on our sports cars, meaning the rear wheels are wider than the front. Same concept as the drag car but to a lesser degree. Theoretically this will give more grip to the driving wheels but unfortunately, since I don't actually race, I'm really just paying a premium to look cool without taking advantage of the performance gains. 

You may notice some of the bigger pickup trucks like the f350s with the dual wheels in rear may have different tires as well to be compatible with that setup. 

For the average driver, economy and safety are the usual priorities. Being able to rotate your tires means you are buying new tires less frequently, and with only 4 tires touching the pavement, proper tread and grip is important to have on all wheels for safety in all weather conditions.

Question: Why do movies cost so much?
Answer: Script writers, editors, cameras, special effects, equipment, labor, power, transportation, CGI takes an extremely long time to make and often takes a lot of labor, actor fees and incomes, lawyers, logistics. Have you ever counted all the people on the credits? All those people get paid to do what they contributed.

Question: Why can't "superbacteria" live outside hospitals
Answer: It's not that they can't live outside of hospitals, it's just that hospitals are great places to go if you want to catch antibiotic resistant bugs. Everyone who goes there is sick, and if they have bacterial infections they are going to get dosed up, which can lead to resistant strains. Plus they are sticking needles into you, and performing surgery and all sorts of activities with a high risk of infection.

Question: Why does garbage day getting pushed back a day actually change anything? Wouldn't this mean they work on some other day they normally have off?
Answer: Many places also have different days for garbage pick up in different areas. To save on the number of workers, they split their area and do pickups each day but in different areas. 

If services was pushed back a day long term than the schedule readjusts. A one-time or short-term pickup change would result in either having to bring on extra workers or working on a previously scheduled day off. Doing either is expensive.

Question: Can one neuron produce a thought?
Answer: I don't think we have enough understanding to answer this question, we don't fully understand what a "thought" is so we can't specifically say what's required to create one.

Question: What is matching? (Clothing)
Answer: Matching is just putting things together without clashing colors or patterns. Now the harder part- what clashes and doesn't . Starting with colors, generally things on opposite sides of the color wheel-  (just search it) will go well together. Those next to each other on the color will as well. Those in some other position may not. You shouldn't put the same color on all the clothes because then it's just too much of one hue.  As for patterns, usually only either the top or the bottom can have them as an easy way to stay out of trouble.  

(There is a lot more like accessories which can add third color to make it more interesting but you are just trying to survive here not become a fashion designer)

Now for the easiest way: just use opposites. 
 Well if you start with the bottoms, let's assume no pattern just color. The easiest is black or white because nearly everything will match with it as a top. So black pants, white top. White pants, black top. If something has to have a pattern- choose only the top or bottom and the other is a plain color.

Oh and tell your gf - pick your own damn clothes out next time too

Question: British Cricket for an American
Answer: [We've done this shit 11 fucking times in the last month.](_URL_0_)

[Here is the one with the most responses and information](_URL_1_)

I can do the following if you so request...

A) Copy and paste the responses into a Word Document and email it to you

B) Screenshot the whole thread, upload to imgur as an album

C) Teach you how to use the search function

Question: The process for connecting new construction to already existing infrastructure. (i.e sewage, internet, power)
Answer: Permitting and code - you start by getting permission to make a physical connection. The process for a small user (like a home) is probably pretty simplified, but for a large users like industrial and comercial locations, you go through a review on how you would impact the rest of the distribution system. You may be required to upgrade things (new sub stations, pipes, etc)

Physically connections - Sewer, water, and natural gas are probably hot tapped. The means you put a saddle on the pipe, then a valve, then a drill assembly goes through the valve, drills a hole on the pipe, then retracts and you close the valve. the distribution system is also build with redundancy, so they can possibly isolate certain legs and drain them if need by.

Electricity is done by the utulility company, but can be done live with certain protective measures. 

I do not have any direct experience with telecom, but i imagine its similiar. 

I'm an engineer at a manufacturing plant, but i used to be a construction worker and i've actually hot tapped water and sewer.

They're building a large Bass Pro Shops in my area, but the opening date was delayed. I spoke with a friend at the local municipal utility authority, and he told me they realized the sewer pipes weren't big enough to handle all the water flow and made them run a new line.

I'm trying to get more electricity into my manufacturing plant, I had to apply to the power company for a review of the new connection. They looked at the existing capacity on my leg of the grid and determined that i can take another 200A of the grid (at13.2kv) without impacting the other customers. they told me this is good because my 2nd option would be to run 5 miles of utility poles and install a new sub-station. option 1 is about $100,000 while option 2 would be about $4 million.

Question: Why do your eyes get puffy after crying?
Answer: When you cry eye ocular muscles constrict and the salt in tears may cause fluid retention in the eye area. This is called ~~Pussy~~ Puffy eyes.

Question: Why are the rules for elections for federal offices allowed to vary between different US states?
Answer: The country was formed from 13 States (hence the name of the country), and the Constitution preserves a lot of autonomy on their part.  For most purposes, the federal government is very loose.

States establish and conduct the elections that send representatives to the federal House and Senate, and also that apportion electors to Presidential races.  This was a huge problem in the century after the Civil War because the Southern states rigged their systems so that black people had no possibility of voting, and under the laws at the time, they were allowed to do so.

That changed in a big way only with the Voting Rights Act of 1965 that allowed the federal government to stop race-based state discrimination in election procedures.

But the same forces are at it again, it seems, finding ways around those federal laws.

Question: why is it woman and children first during natural disasters
Answer: For women:

Women are needed for reproduction and rebuilding of the human race. One male can impregnate a lot of females to ensure that life goes on. If there is only one female and hundreds of males, re-population isnt going anywhere fast.

For children:

They are the future of the human race and naturally have a longer life expectancy than older males. 10 year old will remain on earth much longer than a 50 year old on average, especially with care from all the women being saved.

Basically to make sure that the human race survives.

Question: What are the ramifications to the U.S. and the world if the United States were to stop trading with our closest allies?
Answer: Huge damage to our economy. A huge percentage of Americans are employed making things that are sold in other countries. A huge percentage of the things Americans buy are made in other countries. Quite a few of the products American companies make use components are tools from other countries.

Question: Why does balding seem to occur exclusively in humans and not other mammals?
Answer: Elderley animals develop thin, scruffy fur; old ladies get thin hair like that.  This is the result of the overall breakdown of the body due to age.  Male pattern baldness is different, it happens in healthy men; it is related to testosterone level.  Male pattern baldness *evolved*, presumably for a reason.  [It is probably simply a matter of signaling maturity](_URL_0_).  In a traditional hunter- gatherer society, maturity is synonymous with experience and wisdom.  The world didn't change much for early humans, it is only in a fast changing modern world that old people are confused by technology. 

If you are a fertile young cave woman, the 40 year old guy who is still strong enough to hunt is *attractive*.  That young stud Ogg may be stronger, but old bald Grak brought the tribe through droughts, forest fires, and the hard winters when the mastodons never came.

Question: With same sex marriage federally legalized in the US, why is there a big taboo against Polygamy (even if all parties consent)?
Answer: Legally,  the grounds for one does not necessarily pave the way for the other. 

Besides changing the wording of a few forms, all the legal structure was in place for gay marriages, gay divorce,  gay parental rights,  etc. If jenny could marry Steve there was no legally justifiable reason for Joe not to be able to enter into the same two person contact. 

Polygamy would require a significant rethinking of several laws.  Are a 1 vs 2 divorce handled differently than a 1 v 1 v 1 full divorce.  Do employers have to provide healthcare for more than a single spouse. How do child support and visitation rights work. 

Not saying they are insurmountable hurdles. But it is a much less straightforward move and less a "there's no difference" situation than gay marriage.

Question: The difference between Sunni and Shi'a Islam.
Answer: The differences between Sunni and Shi'a Islam are based on beliefs, culture and history, though they share far more in common with each other than what makes them different. Sunnis comprise about 85% of the global Muslim population. Shiites comprise the remain 15% and are located mostly in Iran, Iraq, Pakistan, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, Lebanon and Pakistan. Sunni translates roughly to "people of tradition," and Shi'a to "followers [of Ali]." 

The split in Islam can be traced back to the early days of Islam. The year was 632CE, the prophet Muhammad had passed and his followers needed to chose a new leader. The first Caliph chosen (leader of the Muslim community) was a man named Abu Bakr. He was an older companion and the father-in-law of the prophet and was seen as one of the most loyal and righteous of Muhammad's followers. Yet many people were upset by the appointment of Abu Bakr to this role. They wanted Muhammad's cousin and son-in-law, Ali, to become the next Caliph. Those who supported Ali saw him as divinely chosen to be the successor, and they believed that the descendents of Muhammad were the rightful heirs. 

During the years of the Rashidun (the first 4 Caliphs) Islam expanded rapidly across the world, gaining new territory and converts. Ali did eventually become a Caliph, the 4^th one. When he died in 661CE, his supporters believed that his son, Hasan should be the next Caliph. However, a powerful man named Muawiyah was able to force Hasan to remove himself as Caliph. After Hasan's death, his younger brother Hussein went to war with with Muawiyah's successors, but Hussein was defeated and killed shortly afterwards. His death became the moment when Sunni and Shi'a Islam split. Sunnis and Shiites ended up segregating themselves into different communities, which allowed for their beliefs and customs to evolve differently over time. 

Shiites believe in a hierarchical order of religious leaders, much like the Catholic Church's priests, bishops, and cardinals. Sunnis are more like Protestant Christianity in that they have religious leaders and scholars, but only at local levels; not unlike a preacher or a pastor. Shiites believe that the descendants of Ali are the rightful leaders of Islam, which they call Imams, and treat their words as divine. Different Shi'a sects believe in a different number of descendants, but the most common sect is the Twelvers. They believe that there were 12 divinely ordained leaders, the last of which is call the Mahdi. The Mahdi is somewhat like the Messiah, as he will come on Judgement Day to right the wrongs of the world. Sunnis believe that the religion's leaders are chosen, not divinely ordained. They also have 5 different schools of thought concerning religious law, whereas Shiites only have one. Sunnis and Shiites also do not follow all of the same *hadiths*, or sayings of the Prophet. Methods of prayer, holidays, and religious clothing also differentiate the two groups.

Question: Why aren't people more accepting of nuclear power in the USA?
Answer: Basically things like Chernobyl and Fukushima have given nuclear energy a bad wrap.  It really only takes one worst case scenario

Question: How do clicky pens work, and what is the mechanism called?!
Answer: Here is a great animation: _URL_0_
As you can see from the animation, the inner surface of the pen is grooved. The button has a "holder", which holds the pen shaft in place and slides back and forth on the grooves. The shaft has a complementary part that fits into the holder. The holder is designed such that the shaft's part always wants to be one section over (it's hard to explain, but if you take apart one of the clicky pens you must have, you can infer from there). The shape of the holder, however, is such that the shaft has to fit in one of the spots in the holder. The spring forces the shaft into these spots. Once you push the button, however, you lift the shaft out of the spot, allowing it to go one spot over. These spots are elevated differently so that the pen has two modes: out and in. The difference in elevation is also why you have to push the button further to open the pen than to close it.
As for what it's called, I have no idea.

Question: Why do bridges ice before the road?
Answer: I may be wrong about this, but I was always told it's because of cold air movement above/below causes it to freeze much quicker, whereas regular road is partially insulated by the ground

Question: Are vitamin pills beneficial for us to take, or are they a complete waste of money? Is eating healthy food the only real way to absorb nutrients?
Answer: Vitamins A, D, E and K are fat-soluble, meaning that they dissolve in fat, rather than water.   This means they tend to hang around in the body for a while.  A large overdose of these vitamins can be dangerous, especially a chronic overdose since it will build up in your system (this is called hypervitaminosis), but what's in a single daily multivitamin dose isn't likely to hurt you.

The B vitamins, and vitamin C, are water soluble, and tend to flush out of the system quickly.  These reek a bit if you take way too much, but again what's in a single daily multivitamin isn't going to hurt you.

Each of the vitamins does something specific, and can cause illness if you don't get enough of it.  But this is unlikely; you can get what's needed by eating normally and healthy.  An excess of vitamins doesn't really help, the vitamin C controversy notwithstanding.

There are a plethora of other minerals that are on the market.  Iron, folic acid, omega-3 pills, calcium, the list goes on and on.  But really, the only reason to take these is if your doctor tells you that you're deficient in something.

TL;DR: They're probably not going to hurt you but there's not really a need to take them unless you're deficient.

Question: - how does someone get into whiskey/bourbons and able to pick up tastes?
Answer: Just like in beer, it takes training. You have to try a lot of different types and compare notes.

It helps to find one or two you really like, drink them a bit to become very familiar with them, then compare others to your "base".

Question: Is it possible to make a battery with enough amperage to hook up to your house's main electrical box?
Answer: Yes. For example, you could just wire 10 car batteries together in series, and they'd made 120V DC.

The size of the battery doesn't really affect its voltage if you're making a single cell. You pretty much always get 1.5V for a zinc-carbon cell, for example, regardless of its size. To make a car battery, you put six 2V cells together (I'm not sure what type of cell they use).

The current is limited by the type of cell in the battery. So, my daisychained car battery system could only put out ~300-500 amps just like a single car battery, not that that's a small amount or anything.

If you daisychained 80 AA batteries together to make a 120V battery, you'd still be limited to around .5 A or something, so not very good.

What you can also do is wire two improvised 120V "batteries" in parallel, which won't change the voltage but will double the amount of current you can put out. Three in parallel will triple your current, and so on.

I should mention that the inverters (what converts DC to AC) are extremely inefficient if you need something rated for the load that a household needs. You actually need a mechanical inverter. It powers a DC motor which cranks an AC generator, essentially. Not good.

Question: Would the Attack on Titan 3D Maneuver gear work on Earth? If not, anywhere else?
Answer: No. 3DMG relies on rapid changes to momentum that would wreak havoc on a human body that weighs 150-200 lbs, especially since most of the force would be applied to one section of the body.

Your second question is the more important.

At 1.35 m/s^2 , there is a planetary body where the average human of the same dimensions would weigh only around 30 lbs, and furthermore large-scale monsters like the Titans could theoretically move around. Plus, it can be theoretically terraformed for human life. 

That location is, of course, Saturn's moon, **Titan**.

Question: What are the differences between alcohols (Isopropyl, stearyl, etc)?
Answer: It has to do with the other parts of the molecule. Alcohol just means it has an -OH group on the molecule, ethanol has two carbons attached to the OH, methanol has one. (They’ve also got hydrogens on the carbons, just to satisfy the octect rule, but that’s details).

The difference between propanol and isopropanol is the configuration of the extra bits. So propanol is just a straight chain of three Cs, while isopropanol has a split, where two Cs on the end bond to the carbon with the OH. (Or you can think of it like the OH is in the middle, rather than on the end) Google images is your frend here. Any alcohol you can think of is shown on images.

As far as the real differences, like the stuff you care about, that’s a bit harder to predict. In essence, it’s about how well it will mix with water. Somthing like ethanol, with only a few carbons, will mix well with water, and not so well with oils. As you add more carbons on, the better it will mix with oil, and the worse it’ll mix with water. The best “cleaning” alcohol will be one that hits the perfect balence between water and whatever you’re trying to cleen off. That way, it can bind to the dirt, but still be washed off with the water.

Question: Why my eye twitches
Answer: I have to know! Mine has been going crazy. Then it stops for a few weeks before it comes back again. I just ate a banana, hopefully that will cure it.

Question: How are stores like Dollar General able to stay in business despite selling things for a dollar?
Answer: Some of it's special made stuff targeted to be under a dollar, others is just stuff other stores are looking to get rid of (they bought too much), so they sell it at a loss to recoup some of their cost. Dollar stores just ensure they always spend less than a dollar per item and thus they can make money.

Question: My co-pay is $20, but without insurance it's thousands of dollars. How does the insurance company make any money?
Answer: In part, because the insurance company doesn't actually pay that "uninsured rate": because they are a huge customer, they negotiate much better rates for the drugs/services. You will never see what they pay: they get an invoice for the face amount, and then get a discount off that.

It's somewhat the same for car dealers. There's an "invoice" with a price, but they don't actually pay that price. The manufacturer gives them all kinds of discounts and credits based on complex rules, like if they meet an overall sales goal they get an extra 5% off.

Question: Gyroids. Because the wikipedia page was so non-layman that it hurt to look at.
Answer: >  A gyroid is an infinitely connected triply periodic minimal surface discovered by Alan Schoen in 1970

A gyroid is a surface in space, just like a plane, the surface of a sphere, or the surface of an idealized doughnut are all surfaces in space.

Notice how a plane is unlike the surface of a sphere—the plane extends infinitely but the surface of the sphere is finite.  A gyroid is infinite, like the plane.

Notice how the surface of a sphere is unlike the surface of a doughnut.  If you have a sphere and you draw a line on that sphere that doesn't cross itself and ends where it started (e.g. draw a little loop, or a big loop, or a big squiggly loop) then you can always inch that line smaller and smaller until it collapses into a point (imagine a rubber band shrinking to zero size).  With a doughnut shape (formally, a torus) you could draw a line following the same rules that would not collapse to a point (see [this](_URL_0_) picture; both of the colored lines have this property).  A gyroid is like the torus, only *infinitely* so—there are infinitely many "holes" in the donut.

The next layer to add is that this surface is "triply periodic."  That means that if you look at one region, then you shift over by some amount in the x direction then you'll see an exact copy of the surface.  Same for the y and z directions.  [This](_URL_1_) image shows a bit of another triply periodic surface that's a little easier on the eyes than the Gyroid.

The next layer to add is that the surface is a "minimal surface."  That means that you can't make a small modification to the surface that reduces its surface area.  It would be like making the surface out of stretchy fabric (woven on non-Euclidian looms, I might add) and the fabric pulls itself taut.

That describes the mathematical terminology used in the opening of the article.  Technically there are lots of triply periodic minimal surfaces.

Question: Why don't bugs flying inside fast moving vehicles smack against the back window?
Answer: Why would they?

The air in the car is moving along with them.

When you're coasting on the highway at 65 if you put your hand up in the air does it get thrown back behind your head?  No because your arm is already moving at 65 MPH.

Question: When I'm walking I'm heels, why do the "clop" noises my feet make always seem like they are 2 different pitches?
Answer: They're coming from two different angles, and since they come from two different sources, the sound waves will bounce off two different sets of objects around you. It'll be a subtle, but noticeable difference.

Question: Is the center of a rotating circle at rest?
Answer: The very center of a CD it is rotating, but not moving in space (relative to the rest of the CD).

Question: How did WWII ship flak guns work?
Answer: At least for US ships, the classic flak burst comes from either the 40mm/56 Bofors, 3"/50 AA or the dual-purpose 5"/38.  The biggest bursts would come from the 5", as you suspect.

The general idea is that the 5" guns shoot down the planes as they're coming at the ship, so rotation required is minimal.  When they get close enough that you need to rotate faster, they're within range of the 40mm Bofors guns, and closer still the 20mm Oerlikon guns.  It's a layered defense.

Question: What's to stop from getting the license, buying a gun, selling it to a criminal, and then just reporting it stolen?
Answer: That's a specific federal crime already, a straw purchase. It happens, but it's almost never prosecuted. Its what most gun owners mean when they say "Why not actually prosecute the laws already on the books instead of drafting new ones."

Question: Why does ice taste bad with milk, even though it is great with every other cold beverage?
Answer: Personally I enjoy ice in my milk, I like it to be ice cold and don't mind if it'd a tad watered down at the end

Question: If you can create a smoke ring, could you make a regular air ring?
Answer: Yeah of course. Like you said though, it'd be invisible to us. There are underwater bubble rings with air though! It's all about fluid dynamics

Question: How are old videos that were filmed in black & white converted to color?
Answer: There literally was a person/team of people who colored it in. As you can guess, it is very tedious work. It is also very difficult of beginners, I'm a semi-pro at most everything Photoshop, but I can't for the life of me realistically colorize a B & W photo, let alone an entire film.

Question: 'Scandal' in UK Newspapers over funding Hate Speech, and why many companies are stopping adverts being shown in these papers
Answer: Several newspapers in the UK, most prominently the Daily Mail (which is the primary focus of this campaign), are considered by some to promote hate speech. For example, the Daily Mail often makes articles which aggressively target immigrants, foreigners, single mothers, people forced to make use of state benefits, etc for heavy criticism. If you're American, they're very much like Fox News. Dirty tricks like having huge frontpage bold-font headlines telling blatant lies, then when they're forced by law to apologise for telling said lies, they tuck it away on page 14 in tiny print in a little sidebox that nobody ever notices. But they're also one of the most-read publications in the country, so they hold considerable sway with what they print.

The funding thing is just about businesses. Lego, for a big example which has been in the news today, used to advertise extensively in the Daily Mail, giving out free Lego figures with the paper. As of late, a campaign came out pointing out that the Daily Mail is considered to be hateful and unpleasant by a lot of people, and that Lego, being a family friendly kind of company (and "foreign" to the UK) may not want to be associated with them.

The campaign was a success, and Lego decided not to advertise with the Mail anymore.

Question: What exactly happens chemically that causes your body temperature to rise when you're sick?
Answer: Your body releases signalling chemicals that cause your blood vessels to shrink and move deeper into your body, making your body less effective at getting rid of metabolic heat. It's kinda like a car turning off its radiator.

Question: If the Senate doesn't have a germaneness rule and can combine two completely unrelated topics on a bill, but the House does have a germaneness rule, how can the House vote on those bills if they make it to the House?
Answer: Generally, House members can't invoke the germaneness requirement on nongermane Senate amendments until the House has reached a stage of disagreement with the Senate over the amendments. So basically, the House has to consider nongermane Senate amendments, but when debating those amendments that they disagree with, they can invoke the germaneness rule to make sure they stick to debating the subject matter in the amendment.

Source: _URL_1_ (towards the bottom of page 10) and _URL_0_ (specifically, clauses 9 and 10).

Question: What's the difference between Body Wash  &  Shampoo? Why can't we use one for the other and visa versa..?
Answer: Not an expert, but I've read (a loooong time ago) that the scalp prefers a different pH than the body. But this may not be significant enough to matter.

OTOH, women tend to have longer hair than men and a shampoo may be better for longer hair. Lady Brienne of Tarth may ignore this.

Question: Can someone explain to me money markets to me like im 5?
Answer: It's no different than a regular savings account, just higher minimum balances which usually yield higher interest than a simply savings account. It is not linked to any external risks, most Money Market account's are FDIC insured. Rates are generally 25-50%  better than the average savings. It differs from a Cetificate of Deposit (CD's) because you can take the money out when ever you like with no penalty on the interest, up to 2 times a month.

Question: Why is it advisable to block your license plate when sharing a photo of your vehicle?
Answer: License plates can be used to find where the owner of the car lives. Unless you're completely comfortable with random strangers knowing that, it might be a good idea to block the plates.

Question: Why do lower frequencies in speakers require more power? Shouldn't it use less power since the speaker vibrates less?
Answer: Another way to think about this is the question: Why do treble sounds travel farther than bass frequencies? To answer this, take a look at the waveform of the frequency in question. The treble wavelength will be much shorter, meaning that for the same power, an audio source can achieve a higher total sound output due to the shorter wavelength. Let's say the treble frequency is around 13kHz, while the bass frequency is around 40Hz. This would mean that the treble frequency is 325 times shorter than the bass frequency, thus leading to the conclusion of both your question and the question I presented. Since a lower frequency has a longer wavelength, the speaker moves more to achieve the same output. This is why you can see speaker cones moving more during bassy music more than treble-y music. It travels farther because, again, less power is needed since it's a significantly shorter wavelength. Hope this helps!

Question: How does one get ROMs from video game cartridges?
Answer: There's hardware you plug the cartridge into and then into your computer that can read the contents of the cartridge and send it to a ROM file. [Here's an example.](_URL_0_)

Emulation development is a very broad topic and I don't think I could do it justice here, but video game emulator developers will typically obtain or reverse engineer the instruction set for the hardware that a particular video game console uses. Once one developer has done this, the information is out there and others don't need to repeat this work. They then use that info to write software which will read the instructions and process them in the correct way. This isn't a perfect process and there can be a difference in the way an emulator performs compared to an actual console.

Here's some resources:

_URL_1_

_URL_2_

Question: How to start a small business
Answer: Finally something I can help with.

First, you need an idea - what will your business do?  Are you going to offer a service, like fixing your friend's toys, or are you going to sell goods - like new toys for your friend... or will you do both?

Once you have the idea you have to keep the government happy.  In America there are two parts of the government who are most interested in you telling them about your business.  Before you can make those two parts/areas of the government happy, you have to get permission from the united states federal government by getting a FEIN.  A FEIN, or Federal employer identification number let the government and IRS track how much money your great new business will make.  You can also use your social security number for a small business, but the FEIN is like a second SSN - one only for the business. Now you can go get your papers to make those two parts of the government we talked about happy. 

The first is the state government, and they want you to get a paper that says you got their permission to do your business.  The state will issue a retail licence, or other form of licence you need, depending on the business you will have.  Some states make it easy, so get permission from your mommy or daddy to go online, and you can usually register for a state-level licence there.  If you can't do it online, you can go to your local business complex, mine is located in the same place as my DMV, or you can call your city hall for more information.

The second part of the government/area you have to keep happy is your county.  The county will issue a business licence, which can be found in the county complex (mine is also in the same building as my DMV) and you can apply at the county treasurer's office.  They will want to know how much money your business will make in sales that year.  Your first year will be a guess, but it's ok because they use the guess to calculate how much tax you will pay.  Anything under 250,000 for your first year will be taxed the same - so no big deal here.

Once you tell both those parts of the government what you are doing, and apply for those licences, you wait for them... and when they arrive - you have an official business.  You can then start your work whether it be a retail location, a home business, or an online business.  You're ok as long as you got the correct licences.  

Sometimes you might need more licenses, like if you want to sell daddy more of those icky cigarettes.   These optional licences depend on the business... and sometimes, depending on where you live, you might not even need that county business licence we talked about.  

Everything else from that point is up to you - just be sure to pay your taxes... or a big mean man named "Uncle Sam" will come ass-rape you when you're not looking.

**TL;DR:** Get a retail licence form the state, business licence from the county - and pay taxes to avoid those anal IRS penalties.

I hope that was clear enough.

Question: Why converting human power to electricity in gyms isn't worthwhile.
Answer: Because the amount of electricity humans can produce through mechanical exertion is extremely small.

A typical person on a bike generator can produce about 100 watts. Assuming someone is using the bike 24 hours per day, that would result in about 72 kilowatt-hours (kWH) of electricity per month (100 watts * 24 hours * 30 days / 1000 for kilo). A typical family uses something like 1000 kilowatt-hours of electricity per month. So you’d have to have something like 13 or 14 electricity generating bikes constantly being used just to supply one family with electricity.

The cost of ordering special bikes that generate electricity and setting up the infrastructure so that you can provide power back to the grid would be far greater than any savings you would get from the electricity generated.

Question: In terms of genetics, what is a 'library'
Answer: Basically it's a collection of genes that have been identified, that we know their purpose and we know the DNA sequence that codes them.

Question: Are there any rules about which company name appears on a credit card statement as the payee?
Answer: I am not 100% sure but I believe the written text is just a note field, the numeric references are the real information. I know that one UK credit card company actually offered the ability to change the text when they started experimenting with an online portal.

Question: Why do electronic devices have a limit on the storage size of MicroSD cards that can be used?
Answer: Right now, we see a pretty strict limit around 32gb, the point where larger cards must follow the SDXC standard, which also mandates a different filesystem.   While for many devices (but not all) this can be added in by a software/firmware, older devices that no longer see updates may never get that added in.   While the 2-4gb limit between SD and SDHC did not require a new filesystem, there were still many cases where an update for SDHC support was never made.  

In addition, many manufacturers, at the time of device's release, will simply stated "up to [largest card currently made]".

Question: How are some car radios capable of spelling out song titles and artist names when tuning into some FM stations?
Answer: Radio stations do a lot of clever work to fit more information in the audio stream then just the audio. Originally an FM station were just a simple mono audio signal. However they found out that the signal quality were good enough to deliver audio signals at much higher frequency then the humans can hear. So they composed the difference between the left and right audio channels and turned the pitch up higher then humans can hear and sent it out on the FM band. A stereo FM receiver were then able to split the audio signal based on pitch and turn the pitch down to its original pitch to then make stereo sound. Later on someone figured out that there were still a lot of unused signals above human hearing so they added a digital signal to a high pitch frequency so it can display the name of the radio station, what song is played and even codes for traffic information where it is supported.

So the name of the song title is just part of a high pitch audio signals on the FM signal.

Question: How is the ozone hole "healing"?
Answer: Ozone is constantly being created in our upper atmosphere because of UV radiation from the sun. It's a good thing too, because otherwise that same UV radiation would cause all kinds of trouble for humans here on the ground.

But in the previous century we had a number of machines, chemical processes (and even fridges) releasing nasty chemicals into the atmosphere that would hurt this ozone layer. This was visible in a measurable lack of ozone in the most fragile spots, around the Earth's poles. These "holes" in the ozone layer grew to an alarming size.

Thankfully the use and release of these chemicals were banned, and now, slowly, we can see the ozone holes shrinking again.

Question: In Music why is B- > C a "half-step" and C- > D a "full-step?"
Answer: The musical scale was adapted and developed from what we had in the past to what sounded nice to the composers at different times. The major scale can be brought back to the pentatonic scale which has (in C) C D E G A C, this has no clashes and is characterized by the major third (C to E). This pentatonic scale is something that humans tend to sing innately and thus forms the basis for the major scale.  Adding in the 4th and 7th degrees add clashes and more flavor to the major scale as well as allowing modal movement in music.

The piano was designed with the C major scale in mind and it was made such that the scale can be played with only white notes. The reason some notes don't have black keys (or half steps between the two notes) is that they are already half steps. This is because of the way the major scale is developed from the pentatonic.

I'll write the major scale in its step fashion form (T = whole tone = two semitone step. 
H = half tone = one semitone step).

Major
T T H T T T H

As you can see with the major scale there are half steps where there are no notes in between. Looking at C major on the piano you can see this easily with the absence of black notes.

It seems illogical at first and could be done different ways but it works.

Edit: 
My experience: Musician and music teacher, Bachelor in Music and Current Graduate Diploma of education.

Question: Lightspeed
Answer: The absolute speed limit of the universe, very close to 300,000,000 meters per secend. It is the most accurately known physical constant.

Question: How does my tv, which has no internet connection tell me what the next program will be?
Answer: Assuming you have cable, your cable provider subscribes to a service called an 'epg' which stands for electronic program guide. This is the electronic equivalent of the TV guide magazine. This is sent to the tv on a special channel along with all the regular shows.

Question: What are incredibly niche stock images actually produced for? Are they commissioned, if so by who?
Answer: Stock photos are taken by random photographers that then give the stock company the rights to the photos in exchange for payment when purchased. Having photos on a stock website does not guarantee it being purchased. 

I've been a model for almost a decade and worked with hundreds of photographers. Some of them create photos with a purpose in mind, an example would be a novel cover or news article. 

Photography is an art and a means to express ones creativity. As you can imagine, that would create some real weird stuff like an old lady licking two popsicles. Or the time I was dressed as a 50s housewife for a pin up shoot and the photographer decided to get "creative" and have me get on my hands and knees, make animal noises and angry faces while he took photos. This is what happens when you are paid for stock photo work sometimes.... I prefer to shoot fashion and lifestyle lol

But anyway, just because a stock photo exists doesn't mean it was ever bought and doesn't mean the creator made it for a specific purpose other than his own crazy ideas.

Question: What caused humans to outsmart other primates?
Answer: Well, humans developed symbolic thought- or the ability to attach meaning to symbols (sounds, gestures, pictures) and communicate complex ideas using those symbols. They used this to develop language, and with language they could speak of the future, and of the past, allowing them to learn from each others mistakes instead of just their own. They could also pass on information directly, allowing one person to discover that, say, those mushrooms over there are poisonous, and then save everyone else from the same mistake. 

Additionally, language allows highly refined degrees of organization and strategy, allowing these humans to out-think and out-organize any enemy they happened to meet. 

Finally, transcending the needs of the present and being able to conceptualize the future, humans were able to develop tools they might need, as well as to see the possible ways they might use a stick or rock, even if that use was not in their immediate environment. And so invention began, giving humans an ever-increasing storehouse of tools. 

One of the most powerful advantages we have is that our knowledge and experience do not die at our death. We can teach our children our own tricks, teach them how to build tools and make fire, etc. And then they can spend their lives making further improvements on those ideas without devoting the time it took to come up with them to begin with.

Question: Why aren't there any dinosaur-sized creatures around today?
Answer: tl;dr - the ratio of food:dinosaurs was much higher, so they could afford to be big. After they were wiped out, that ratio would never be as high again.

___

In addition to the answers given, when the dinosaurs were around there were orders of magnitude fewer "creatures" on the planet and the Earth was covered with lush forests. The largest animals were herbivores because they could eat lots and lots of greens without much effort and competition. Carnivores needed to expend a lot more energy to hunt so they weren't as large, but one kill also provided a lot of meat - ie, dinosaurs were big because they COULD be.

Overtime, as populations of titanic herbivores expanded, it became evolutionarily beneficial to be smaller because there was less food to go around, so larger subspecies were more prone to starvation before breeding. When hunting and killing one of those creatures provided less meat/energy, it became evolutionarily beneficial for the carnivores to also be smaller.

Their massive sizes and the limited food supply at the bottom of the food chain (plants and herbivores) put a lot of stress on the entire ecosystem. When the asteroid hit, a lot of land was sundered. Tsunamis, earthquakes, acid rain and partial obstruction of the sun meant that there were even less plant-life. Herbivores started dying off en masse. Without their own prey, so did the carnivores.

Smaller creatures that required much less food to live managed to scavenge enough to survive to pass on their genes and continue the evolutionary process. The ratio of food:eaters would never be as high again, so "big" animals just never flourished.

Question: With #Calexit gaining traction the best argument for succession is that it has the worlds 6th largest economy. I find this oversimplified. How much of the CA economy actually benefits from being a state (e.g. importing/exporting American made goods)?
Answer: California certainly has a lot to lose.  Californians would presumably lose the right to live and work in the other 49 states as they lost their US citizenship for CA citizenship.  CA companies might have import tariffs slapped on their goods and services.  It seems very unlikely under a Trump administration that California would get a free trade deal if they left.

California does, however, have a higher income per capita than the US as a whole at $63,763 vs $57,293.  This means that Californians presumably pay more in taxes than average and if they left the US, they could get taxed at a lower rate while still raising the same money.  For example, if you need $10,000 per person in taxes to run your government services and everyone earns $100,000, you only need to tax them at 10%.  If they only earn $50,000, you need to tax them at 20%.  However, given California's high state income tax and high property values leading to high property taxes (both of which are deducted off federal taxes), it's likely that Californians don't pay more than average taxes.  Looking at Wikipedia, California is 21st in per-capita federal taxes (_URL_0_).

The only real way it makes sense is if you think California can govern itself better than the US as a whole will be governed.  That's a hard claim to make for a liberal state.  The way many US laws work is that they set a floor, but not a ceiling.  So, the government sets a federal minimum wage, but states are allowed to override that with a higher minimum wage (but not a lower minimum wage).  For some of the things that go against liberal states, the states have simply been ignoring the federal government.  Pot is definitely illegal in all states, but many states have even gone so far as taxing, regulating, and licensing illegal businesses.  Immigration is definitively under the power of the federal government, but some states have been issuing driver's licenses, in-state tuition, and other rights.  I guess the question is: are there federal policies that, if changed, would result in a much better situation.

California could argue that it might be able to govern more efficiently.  Singapore certainly governs more efficiently than most countries.  However, the Californian government isn't exactly a model of efficiency.

Ultimately, Calexit is about people wanting a government they believe in chosen by the people around them who think in a similar manner.  That's not a bad thing - in fact, that's a big part of the Republican "states' rights" thing.  Why should the federal government do something when we might want slight variations in different states that might give people more of what they want?  If Californians want trains and Alaskans want boats, why should the federal government set a policy of roads?  A less contrived example might be health care.  If the majority of our taxes went to state governments rather than the federal government, California might decide that it wants a single-payer health system while other states go with a market-based solution.  Instead, we all get the Affordable Care Act which is okay, but not what anyone really wanted.  And 10 years down the line, maybe California is doing great or terrible with their single-payer system compared to other states and we can see what works.

But ultimately, people only want states' rights when they're going to lose federally.  Republicans don't cry out for states' rights on pot or immigration where they've won federally and can impose their will.  Likewise, Democrats want states' rights on those issues since they've lost federally.  On the other hand, Democrats want the pieces they've been able to force through federally.  When Obama was in power, it's all about pushing federal power.  Obama should be able to write policies by fiat.  Now that Trump will be in power, states' rights to the point of leaving.

In terms of California being a large economy, that can help in terms of smoothing risk, but in our modern world, it's not that much of a benefit.  In the old days before globalization, let's say you're a software engineer and software is doing really well while manufacturing isn't so hot.  Well, you still want a smartphone and will have to employ local labor to make that smartphone and so there's a certain smoothing in a large and diverse economy.  However, today, you're a software engineer and you get labor from anywhere and the manufacturer doesn't get boosted by you.  Manufacturing gets boosted, but not local manufacturing.  Trade is a lot more open than it used to be and even large nations like the US require trade to remain healthy.  Small economies like Ireland and Singapore have access to markets much the same way that large nations do.  Being a big or very diverse economy simply isn't that important in the modern world.

Calexit is about people who don't want to be under President Trump for 4 years.  It's simply cathartic since the US has no mechanism for leaving.  Lots of right-wing states wanted to leave when Obama was elected.  You know that the federal government is going to be pushing things you don't like on you.  The federal government is only fun when you're pushing the things you like onto others!

*None of this is meant as a judgement on the goodness of the federal government as much as to point out that people's opinions on the federal government vs states' rights is usually just about where they're more likely to get their way on something.  Liberals were all about states' rights for gay marriage while conservatives were pushing for the federal government to intervene.  Now that the federal government has come down on the side of gay marriage, liberals and conservatives have swapped sides on the issue!  And there are certainly nuances (especially where civil rights are concerned), but I think the idea of people wanting to get their way is salient.  The true test of Calexit is whether they would have wanted it if Hillary had been elected (or in 4 years if a Democrat is elected).  If the answer is no, then it's kinda bullshit.

Question: Are nuclear missiles "easy" to launch? If Russia were to go into civil war how easy would it be for terrorists to find, target, and launch a weapon?
Answer: No, they are not easy to launch at all. They require secret codes which are not available at the launch site; you don't want a commando team to take a nuclear silo and be able to launch and detonate a missile.

Question: What is a Sievert and its SI multiples? How much is dangerous?
Answer: > For example, 3.58 µSv, is that a lot of radiation, or not so much? Would I, or any other body, be in danger around that?

That's quite a small amount of radiation. We all get a little radiation when we go about living our lives. For example those who live in Princeton gets a little under 3 millisieverts/year from natural sources (non-ELI5 [wikipedia link](_URL_0_) ). And the upper limit for people that work in radiation rich enviroments is set to 50 millisieverts per year. 

And I guess you know that there is 1000 µSv (microsievert) in one millisievert (mSv).

XKCD made a very very nice [graphic of radiaition levels](_URL_1_) that I think you will find interesting and informative.

Question: How do names work in sign language?
Answer: Just as all other communication occurs in this language, names are expressed visually. Sure they can be spelled out using signed alphabet letters, but that's so phonetic and not really how sign language works. 


If my hearing name is Roxanne and my right eye is a lazy eye, I can almost guarantee you my signed name will have something to do with an "R" pressing against my right eye. Or, if my hearing name is Ashley and I have huge breasts, my signed name might honestly be something like an "A" in each hand motioned around the chest area. 

Dat shit be visual.

Question: Why is marijuana officially classified as a hallucinogen if you dont actually “hallucinate?”
Answer: There are tons of psychoactive chemicals in cannabis. They vary greatly from strain to strain. Some strains are bread specifically for their high or low levels of this chemicals.

Some of these chemicals are in fact hallucinogens. Most of them subside after regular smoking due to building a tolerance.  It's much more mild than DMT psilocybin or LSD.

Question: Heterosexuality - Why, exactly, are men attracted to women, and vice versa?
Answer: Men and women can breed with each other. That's why. It's a primal instinct every living thing has.

Question: Do the signs on the backs of trucks that say, "warning stay back 200ft, not responsible for broken windshields" carry legal weight?
Answer: They carry zero legal weight in cases where something falls from the truck. You can't unilaterally disclaim liability for negligence. Loads are required to be secured in every state. The driver would be negligent by either not securing the load or improperly doing so, and a single stone falling from a truck is an unsecured load. They generally would not be liable if they truck were to kick up and object from the road that did not originate from the truck.

Now getting them to pay is a another matter. First off, you have to prove that the item came from their truck, then you have to deal with their internal claims departments in many cases which will often stonewall, even for provable cases.

Question: How do traffic lights 'know' when to change, etc.?
Answer: Some traffic lights are on a timer. Those are the lights that seem to take forever to change. Other signals are triggered by a pressure plate under the asphalt, you can usually spot these by a square "patch" looking piece of asphalt at the stop line. The mechanism used usually depends on the amount of traffic at that intersection.

Question: In the USA, what is life (in practical terms) actually like for illegal immigrants? Can they get jobs, legally drive, get healthcare, etc?
Answer: They cannot legally get jobs, they cannot legally drive as they cannot legally get a driver's license, they can get treatment at an ER but they cannot get health insurance, they cannot legally get an apartment because they lack the proper documents, etc. 

What this means is that everything they do is under the table. They get paid in cash, and pay for everything in cash. The people that are providing these things are criminal (technically) and are shady. They do not have any legal protections from these people taking advantage of them (underpaying, overcharging, etc).

Question: What are E-cigs, and what is the controversy about them?
Answer: As others have said, E-cigs are devices that vaporize a liquid containing nicotine and other substances for you to inhale.  There has been some testing done on these, but most of that is just understanding what chemicals are present in the vapor, as compared to the smoke of traditional cigarettes.  There have been no long-term studies completed as of yet.

But, the conclusions so far are that E-cig vapor is likely to be much safer than a traditional cigarette.  E-cigs are certainly not safe - a variety of chemicals including formaldehyde, can be detected in the vapor.  But these are at much lower concentrations than in traditional cigarette smoke.  Keep it in perspective though - using an E-cig is probably less harmful than living in Beijing with all of the pollution there.  But you can't say they are "safe", just "safer" (and probably much, much safer) than traditional cigarettes.

Source: Ph.D. respiratory infectious disease researcher

Question: How are they making technology so damn small?
Answer: I hate to be linking wikipedia as a source, but this article does contain fair bit of information surrounding this: [Moore's Law](_URL_0_). Since this is ELI5, I'll elaborate on key points. 

A little bit of background: I am a computer architect, which is to say I'm the one who comes up with blue prints for buildings (CPUs and GPUs) to be built using ever smaller and more number of bricks (transistors). I know a fair bit about designing chips and how to program them, with the goal of making programs execute faster, but the actual physics/manufacturing techniques involved in shrinking the transistor is just outside the limits of my expertise. What I know are characteristics and limitations of the smaller transistors of the future, since that information directly impacts my work.

- How do they do it?

There are many enabling factors, but I think the answer you are looking for in terms of what actually does the shrinkage is what's called "photolithography." A simple way to explain this is how projectors in movie theaters show large pictures "projected" from much smaller original images (films). If you reverse this process, you can imagine shrinking a large photo into an extremely tiny one. Photolithography basically does this using extremely precise form of light: lasers. So, computer architects come up with new blue prints, and then manufacturers print them out on transparent film and shines laser through to shrink them. I believe they do this many times (shrink - >  shrink - >  shrink, etc) to achieve the current level of concentration. Once they have the blueprint in a sufficiently small scale, they switch to shining UV light on a specially treated very flat piece of silicon to "print" its image onto it. Then they use acid to eat away the portions that the light hadn't reached to create tiny transistors on the surface of the silicon.

- Physical limit

Yes. This is actually a very interesting topic. One of the fundamental limits that's easy to grasp is related to the fact that the absolute size of atom (silicon atoms) is fixed. Once you reach the level of shrinkage where transistors consist of only several atoms, the inevitable errors in the process will lead to too many of the chips being faulty in the end, which makes this whole business economically unviable. [ITRS](_URL_1_) is the definitive source in this matter, particularly the "roadmap" they publish frequently.

Other limits do exist, which were significant enough that made changes in the architecture design. In the late 80s, there was a growing interest in parallel computing, but manufacturers were able to simply run things faster with smaller transistors by feeding more power and operating them at faster frequency (Mhz to Ghz). That was the case all through 90s but around 2004 it became clear that making them operate faster is no longer an option because they started taking in too much power and therefore things got too hot. That's why they started making multicore chips, which require significant changes in how they are programmed.

I tried to make it easy for a 5 year to understand, but I'm sure I've already lost their interest by the end of this long rambling.... Hope this helps!

Question: If no country is on the gold standard, why does paper money have any value at all?
Answer: Because we say it does.

Gold does not hold any value either, if no one wanted gold it would be worthless. So long as people want paper money they will ascribe value to it.

Question: Difference between speculation and investment?
Answer: Investment is a general commitment of resources to whatever you decided. 

Specullation as a financial investment colloquialism in general means acting on an expectation, often with the aid of a loan of sorts.

That practically means that any investment in a development over the result of which you do not have complete control is a specullation, strictly speaking.

The line is blurry because the definitions and perceptions of this control vary.

Question: System of Linear Equations/Inequalities?
Answer: Let's say you don't get an itemized bill but you want to figure out the prices at the restauraunt:

You order a hamburger and a beer totaling $15 and on the second visit you order a hamburger and 2 beers totaling $20. How much does a hamburger cost and how much does a beer cost?

h + b = 15

h + 2b = 20

We subtract the first equation from the second one:

h - h + 2b - b = 20 - 15

b = 5

Now we know the beer is $5. We plug that into the first equation:

h + 5 = 15

h = 15 - 5

h = 10

Now we know the hamburger is $10.

This is basically the most intuitive, practical and useful field of mathematics there is. A lot of things can be expressed as a set of linear equations and linear algebra (which this is all about) is basically how we manipulate all data.

Question: What an 'Epipen' is and how it works?
Answer: An epipen is an easy to use syringe filled with epinephrine, an artificial form of adrenaline, and a few other drugs. It is one of the most efficient ways to delay an acute allergic reaction until you can seek medical treatment. If someone gets an allergic reaction and have problems breathing so you are not able to communicate with them. Then call the emergency number and look if they have an epipen with them. The instructions on the epipen should be simple to follow. When you inject them with the epipen the symptoms change as they go from an acute allergic reaction into adrenaline shock. Just keep them breathing until medical services arrive and can help out.

Question: In evolution how did sexual differentiation come about, like males and females?
Answer: [Ah, wikipedia :)](_URL_0_). The reason is genetic diversity. If you have two genders, that's twice the genes to one specimen (baby), which allows helpful gene selection to occur. The species then evolves quicker.

Question: Why does wind or moving air feel cool to animals and humans?
Answer: When it is hot you sweat. Moving air makes sweat evaporate faster and evaporation absorbs heat making it cooler. Also, when the air is still your body creates a sort of "heat bubble" around you (the air closest to your body absorbs the heat of your body). When it is windy, a steady supply of cooler air is able to absorb more of your body heat. Heat transfers more quickly to colder things.

Question: Why do I feel like smoking about 13 cigarettes a minute when I'm drinking alcohol?
Answer: Alcohol gives you very poor impulse control. Nicotine is highly addictive, which means it gives you a strong impulse to smoke.

Question: Private vs. Public Companies
Answer: "Going public" and issuing shares is a good way to raise money.  It opens your pool of potential investors from a select few, to nearly everybody, as well as giant investment instutions.  More investors = easier to raise more money.  This money is then used to build the company's business operations.

For example, let's say you have a privately held company, and you want to expand your operations into Canada.  This requires opening up a new store, which requires money, lots of money.  Your only real option is to go beg for a loan from various banks.

Now if you were publicly traded, you could get a loan from banks, OR you could also issue more shares of stock, and not be indebted to anybody.  The catch is that issuing more shares of stock means that you now are beholden to those new shareholders: they will have a say in how your business is run.

Good idea?  Many companies think so.  Others, like Cargill or Koch Industries, continue to be privately held.

Question: freudian theory; id, ego and super ego
Answer: The Id is the primal, uninhibited part of oneself, which bases all of its actions on instincts and urges. The Superego is the part that bases its actions on social norms and expectations. Basically, the Superego is one's idealized version of how he or she should behave in a civilized society, while the Id is the caveman version. The Ego is a combination of the two, or the version of oneself that manifests in one's everyday life, due to the competing influence of the Id and Superego

Question: If there is no matter in space, what do the rockets push on to accelerate a ship?
Answer: That's not how rockets work. Rockets don't "push on" anything. They're not sneakers. By igniting a chemical reaction, they cause an action, i.e., projecting a stream of expanding gas in a particular direction. The reaction is moving the rocket in the opposite direction. Whether the surrounding environment is a vacuum or not is entirely irrelevant to that analysis. Indeed, rockets work *better* in a vacuum, as there is no atmosphere to resist the motion of the engine.

Question: How do geese seem to know exactly when to return?
Answer: They don't. They are actually pretty terrible at it oftentimes. I've been seeing small groups of geese flying north for about a month now, as Ontario has been gripped by The Winter That Shall Not Die. It's only in the aggregate that geese are good at this, but that makes sense, and is a fairly common pattern in nathoseture.  Those who are less good at their timing won't have the sort of reproductive success that those better at it will find, all else being equal.

Question: Why do we start to salivate when thinking or about to eat spicy or sour foods?
Answer: It's a Pavlov's dog effect. We're conditioned to associate the smell of spicy and sour and even the thought of it with eating food, and so our body physically reacts. It's not specific to spicy foods at all. If you walked into a bakery every day and ordered a loaf of bread and then ate it, the smell of bread would probably cause the same effect for you after a while.

Question: What happens when you get that little knot in your throat when you're about to cry?
Answer: It's an inflammation in the throat because you're about to cry. It's called globus.

Question: Why do postage stamps have curvy edges?
Answer: In the old days, stamps were printed on a big sheet of paper, and they'd use a machine to poke rows of tiny holes in the paper so that it would be easy to tear off individual stamps. Those "perforations" would make the edges of the torn off stamp look wavy.

Modern stamps are printed on strips of sticky paper with a waxy backing so you can peal them off. Instead of poking holes through, they use a thing that looks like a cookie cutter to make cuts in the sticky paper and, usually, leave the backing paper uncut. Since people are so used to the wavy edges, the cutter has wavy edges to imitate the stamps from long ago. It no longer serves a function though.

When you have something with a shape that mimics the shape of something older, but no longer serves the original, or any, purpose, that's called skeumorphism.

Question: How can healthy individuals with no symptoms initially develop allergies later in life?
Answer: Also want to know this.  Used to be allergic to cats and fine around dogs.   Now it's the opposite.

Question: Why don't you see rain in sports tv broadcasts?
Answer: My guess is that it's the focal length. When they show the field they have to use a rather large focal length since the players are rather far away. When they show the bench they would use a smaller focal length which would include the rain.

Depth of field is probably also in play (no pun intended) here. Wider aperture for they players, since they move so much, but it can be narrower for the bench.

Question: Can the POTUS issue Executive Order on withdrawing from NATO?
Answer: No. NATO is part of a treaty (the North Atlantic Treaty), and only the Senate can make or break treaties. Withdrawing from any organization that we are members of by treaty, like NATO or the UN, isn't something that the president can do unilaterally.

Question: what the parts of the scientific name (species, family, genus, tribe, etc) mean.
Answer: It's used to show how things are classed and how closely related they are.

Life - A characteristic distinguishing physical entities having signaling and self-sustaining processes from those that do not

Domain - the tree of life consists of three domains: Archaea, Bacteria, and Eukarya. The first two are all prokaryotic microorganisms, or single-celled organisms whose cells have no nucleus. 

Kingdom - Essentially what type of life form it is. The USA traditionally uses a 6 kingdom system (Animalia, Plantae, Fungi, Protista, Archaea, and Bacteria) while other countries use 5 (Animalia, Plantae, Fungi, Protista, Prokaryota/Monera)

Phylum - Groupings within each kingdom based on other physical/developmental similarities (phenetic definition) or evolutionary relatedness (phylogenetic definition)

Class - The composition of each class is determined by a taxonomist. Often there is no exact agreement, with different taxonomists taking different positions. There are no hard rules that a taxonomist needs to follow in describing a class, but for well-known animals there is likely to be consensus. For example, dogs are usually assigned to the phylum Chordata (animals with notochords); in the class Mammalia; in the order Carnivora. They are based around broad, but defining traits. Mammalia includes animals with hair, mammary glands and the neocortex (part of the brain), whereas avialae are feathered, winged, two-legged, warm-blooded, egg-laying vertebrates, more commonly known as birds.

Order - Similar to class, there is no absolute ruling, and things can change depending on location and education. And is generally used to show close similarities between different species and families. They are generally organized around similar constructs, dogs are carnivores so they are placed with bears, cats, etc in Carnivora. White-tailed deer are even-toed ungulates (cloven hoofed animals) such as pigs, giraffes and cattle.

Family - This is where we start to get down to brass tacks. These are used to show even closer similarities, such as the family Canidae, also knowns as "canids" or dog-like animals. They are in two tribes/families, wolf-like (canini) and fox-like (vulpini) all of these are physically and socially similar

Genus - Often used to show a common ancestry, for instance, dogs, wolves, jackals and coyotes are all part of "canis" and this can be seen as they are all very wolf-like

Species - Possibly one of the easiest to determine. They are of the same species if they can mate with eachother and produce viable offspring. Hence, all members of Canis Lupus can mate and have their children mate as well, since they all have similar DNA. Of course it wouldn't be science if they didn't throw a few wrenches into the mix. When a donkey and a horse mate, they create a mule. Male mules are sterile, but female mules are fertile, leaving the debate up as to whether horses and donkeys are really the same species or not.

Subspecies - Throwing this in here for good measure. Subspecies are essentially when all the animals are the same species, they can interbreed and be healthy and are similar, but they are still notably different. Going back to dogs, we see the difference between Eurasian Wolves, Pet Dogs and Dingoes (Canis Lupus Lupus, Canis Lupus Familiarus and Canis Lupus Dingo respectively) they are all technically wolves, but evolving separately over the past few thousand years, we see that they have change, but are all the same species. In humans you can see this with differences between Europeans, Africans, Asians, Pacific Islanders, etc.

You could go further and do subsubspecies with Can.Lup.Fam.Shepherd (Shepherd Dogs) and Can.Lup.Fam.Hound (Hound Dogs). Or even subsubsubspecies with Can.Lup.Fam.Shep.Germanus (German Shepherd) and Can.Lup.Fam.Shep.Britainus (English Shepherd). Though at this point we would call them breeds.

Question: Why do electronics which have gotten wet, stop working even when they completely dry?
Answer: In addition to the damage being done on contact (i.e. creating short circuits leading to immediate or near-immediate failure); tap water, rain/flood water, etc contain a lot of impurities. The evaporated water leaves these behind which may create a delayed onset of corrosion, which can cause poor contact between components and connectors. 

Distilled water is actually safe for most printed circuit boards (at least those with sealed components) as long as it is applied and completely dried before power is given to the device.

Question: How do antidepressants work in the human brain?
Answer: I'll just touch on the most common type of antidepressant, which are SSRIs, or "selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors."

Serotonin is a chemical transmitter that we understand to be important for regulating mood and other "higher" functions. It's released from neurons in certain parts of the brain, where it binds to neurons elsewhere and tells them to do things. Without getting too complicated, this brain activity helps make us feel "normal," or not depressed. People with depression tend to have low stores of serotonin to release, or don't release as much as they should.

The purpose of an SSRI is to make that available serotonin last longer. Naturally, the brain recovers serotonin that's been released, and recycles it for later. As the name implies, a "reuptake inhibitor" will stop the brain from recovering that serotonin, so it has more time to float around and do its job.

**True ELI5 Answer:** If you imagine serotonin as kids running around being happy in a playground, SSRIs are equivalent to giving them snacks and water so they can play all day. That, or like slashing their parent's tires so they literally can't leave.

Question: Why do humans still have to do their own taxes? Why isn't this process automated?
Answer: It is automated. ...In other countries. Lots of countries don't force their citizen to do their own taxes, although they're still allowed to if they really want to (for example if they don't trust the government instances to get it right). It's fully possible to do, if your nation just wants to develop the tools to automate it.

I'm 32 and I've never even once done my taxes, just glanced over the work that's been automatically done to see if there were some obvious errors.

Question: What happens when you have a 'pinched nerve'?
Answer: When pressure is applied on a nerve it gets activated, that's how nerves work, you will feel the pressure, pain, etc. However, when too much pressure is applied to a nerve by surrounding tissues, such as bones, cartilage, tumors, muscles, overgrowth of bone or tendons. This pressure disrupts the nerve's function, causing pain, tingling, numbness or weakness.

Question: We are all probably glued to a computer screen for way too long each day, whether it be Netflix, video games, homework, instagram, whatever. How bad is this for your eyes, and what’s the most healthy way to minimize eye damage?
Answer: There's nothing "bad" about it - from an eye health perspective. Your eyes take in light, and have been doing so your whole life. Just because that light comes from a monitor does not make the light worse or more dangerous. 

Eye strain and eye fatigue can give you a headache. Rest your eyes by closing them once a day for, say, 8 hours.

Question: Why is it that when a couple gets divorced the guy is usualy the one who gets screwed over the most?
Answer: Households that had a traditional gender role split then have a traditional gender role split in divorce.

If a married couple choose to have children, and decide to divide the labour of raising the family such that one person sacrifices a career, while the other maintains their's with minimal interruption to provide the financial needs of the household, it makes sense that, were the household to split, the one who had historically been the caregiver would continue to be the caregiver, and the one who had been the financial giver would continue to be the financial giver.

This heads off problems where the one who gave up career nurturing would not be up shits creek because they had no resume to show for the time that they committed to the nurturing of the children in the household. It also heads off the (less complained about) problem wherein the one who had traditionally been available and dependable in their career, suddenly might have to take off way more time, and become way less dependable, in service of nurturing and raising children.

Finally, its head off the consequent, were the two less-desirable outcomes to happen (wherein the one who sacrificed resume-building must find a shit job, and the one who has a job requires more time off) in which the first cannot actually find a job (and can therefore no longer provide well enough for the children) and the second DOESN'T sacrifice time from their job, therefore not providing well enough for the children.

Question: How are crimes solved years after the fact using DNA evidence?
Answer: DNA, kept in reasonable decent conditions (which boils down to not exposing it to lots of ionizing radiation ) lasts of several years. While it does degrade over time, it's half life (the point at which half of the DNA in a sample will no longer be useable) is somewhere north of 500 years.

Question: Why does it take so long for major reform to happen if most of the general public agrees that change needs to be made? e.g. Marijuana and Gay Marriage
Answer: The government is designed to be slow to save us from ourselves.  Having to go through the process theoretically vets new ideas and changes so they're not implemented hastily with no thought to the consequences.  It may be inconvenient when the changes are positive, but it's there to prevent bad ideas from being enacted without having the time to think over them.

Question: What happens when people die?
Answer: She is in you, and in your siblings (if you have any).

You carry her genes, she told you her memories, she taught you how to live your life.

Question: How do we get songs stuck in our heads?
Answer: Short term memory has an audio component. When you rehearse something in your head it gets recycled into short term memory and reinforced. So you hear the song, your STM registers it, you rehearse it in your head a few times, it gets stuck! 

If you want a more in depth answer I would suggest googling “short term memory components”

Question: Why can drinking too much alcohol cause you to go blind and what is the biology/chemistry behind it? Is it specifically because you absorb too much too quickly (like with moonshine/liquor/spirits), or is there something else that causes it?
Answer: Drinkable alcohol is ethanol; it's what in the beer and spirits you buy at your liquor store. Moonshine that isn't distilled correctly builds methanol which the body metabolizes into formaldehyte (which is toxic) and then further into formic acid which will harm your nervous system, beginning with the eyes (causing blindness).

Question: A Calabi–Yau manifold and other higher dimensional shapes.
Answer: You're not alone. Our brains evolved in a world with only three extended spatial dimensions and that means we simply don't have the mental wiring to be able to "visualise" more dimensions than that. Some scientists and mathematicians who've spent years working on concepts of multidimensional objects claim to be able to mentally "see" 4-dimensional (or even higher) shapes but I suspect even then they're using some kind of simplification.

Question: how CRE can pass its drug-resistance to other bacteria
Answer: DNA can be stored as small, circular, independently replicating molecules called [plasmids](_URL_1_). These can be passed from one bacteria to another in a process called '[bacterial conjugation](_URL_2_)'.

Basically the plasmid has genes that code for proteins that build a [pilus](_URL_0_) which extends from the first bacteria and contacts the second. This then allows them to contact each other and build a bridge between them. A copy of the plasmid is nicked and a single strand of DNA is transferred. Each bacteria can use the single strand as a template to make the full double-stranded plasmid.

If the transferred plasmid has genes that provide resistance to antibiotics, that trait is transferred to the new bacteria.

Question: Soccer youth academies
Answer: I've two sons at academies of professional clubs here in the UK.
Both were scouted at an early age playing for their grass roots local village teams, one at 9, one at 11. If you spend any amount of time at these junior games you'll see scouts looking for talent. If you go to a tournament in the summer there's frequently a dozen or so there. Some are there on top offs about a particular kid.
Above that age it's pretty unusual to get a place as the extra time and quality of training means that even kids with similar talent levels will start to diverge.
At professional clubs you don't have to pay subs for training/playing/kit.
Training time depends on age, under 16 and they train 2 hours Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday, then play Sunday. Youth team U18 train full time, five days a week then play Saturday.
Number 2 son has just been given a scholarship for the next two years until he's 18, which means they'll be paying him, not much but still a wage. Following that he'll be looking for full time senior contract. He is 15, but has been playing for the U18s since last summer, so he's struggling to train enough given he's still at school. Only 2-3 will be given each year, so maybe a 1:3 chance.
It's pretty tough for English kids to make it unless you're the standout player of your generation. I remember elder son playing against Man Utd one year and him coming off saying all the defense were speaking French to each other, turns out they were from Senegal and the Ivory Coast. Big clubs scout around the world, and have enough money to bring whole families over, put them up and find dad a job etc

Question: Why is the age of consent in some countries such as Japan and Mexico so low compared to countries like the US?
Answer: In Japan, the national government leaves it up to municipalities, who enforce higher ages such as 17. To some degree this also happens at a state level in Mexico.

However, to answer your question more broadly: historically many societies have felt that sexual activity is permissible after puberty. It's only in the last century or so that many countries (such as the USA) have decided otherwise, based on ideas of *emotional maturity* or the need to get an education before parenting; these were not considered important factors historically.

Question: how does the money I spend for a CD get to an artist?
Answer: Depends on the term of their record contract. If they're on a label that puts their music up on iTunes for example, the label gets a cut and so does Apple. My band was on a small independent label that was a subsidiary of a larger label and each of them got a percentage, so I think after all was said and done the band got 25% or so of total sales. For every dollar we made on iTunes we'd get about 25 cents, which ideally would've been split between the 5 of us but normally just went towards future expenses. If you're buying a CD at walmart or target the artist will receive pretty much nothing as the retailers cut is so high. If you want to support an artist and put money directly into their pockets, go to a show and buy something from their merch table or preorder their album from the labels website. Labels like preorders.

Question: Why is it better to start with cold water and boil it when making pasta or coffee, rather than starting with hot water?
Answer: It is a myth that cold water boils faster than hot water, but hot water can freeze more quickly than cool water due the [Mpemba effect.](_URL_0_)

Question: Why does the space shuttle or the soyuz need special tiles to reenter the atmosphere but spacex falcon does not?
Answer: Are you talking about the Falcon 9 first stage, or the actual Dragon capsule?

If you're talking about the Falcon 9 first stage, that's because it separates from the rest of the rocket at a relatively low altitude and speed, and thus there's less heat during reentry. It also burns it's engines to slow down to further reduce heating.

If you're talking about the Dragon capsule, it does have tiles. The shuttle and Dragon have reusable tiles since the shuttle was reusable and so is the Dragon. The Soyuz does not have tiles. It has a simple ablative heat shield because the capsule is not reusable. Once it lands back on earth, its job is done, so the heat shield does not need to reused either.

Question: How are record sales calculated now that there is music streaming and the ability to buy one song?
Answer: Streaming and downloading services record the number of plays individual songs get, and this time is broken down into "record equivalent plays" which basically says something like "10 song sales is worth 1 album sale" even if it's all 10 sales of the same song off the album.

Currently, Billboard equates 10 song purchases or 1500 streams as an album sale.

Question: Where do a lot of gay men get their lisp from?
Answer: I'm not a gay man but I am gay (female obviously), so I've spent a lot of time on the gay scene and tend to be friends with gay men more so than women.

It's the same as so-called "ebonics" - it's a learned behaviour, to fit in. There's no genetic reason for it, it's just a case of fitting in with the pack. If your circle of friends all said something a certain way or used a new word to describe something, you'd naturally start doing it too.

Question: How does a hospital medically induce someone into a coma?
Answer: giving someone barbiturates will put them into a controlled coma where the body can heal itself until it is ready. For more information on coma - _URL_0_

Question: why did the universe "start"?
Answer: We do not know. We cannot even say with complete confidence that it *has* a start, although the leading theories of the day suggest it. 

Current science is not capable of getting all the way back to "time zero," nor whatever occurred before that, if such a concept is even meaningful.

Question: How do Interim championships in UFC work
Answer: So champions in fighting are decided linearly: you beat the current champion now you are the champion, you get beat the guy that beats you is now champion.

But if the champion is temporarily unable to fight because of something out of their control (medical, legal, etc) than the sanctioning body will allow two highly ranked competitors (preferably #1 and #2) to fight for the interim title so that there is still a champion. Once the linear champion returns they'll fight and reunify the championship

Question: How and why do men ejaculate with more velocity when they are more excited?
Answer: Welp, I just spent a good ten minutes reading about ejaculation on wikipedia, so now I'm an expert.

Here's what I think, based on this sentence:

 > A prolonged stimulation either through foreplay (kissing, petting and direct stimulation of erogenous zones before penetration during intercourse) or stroking (during masturbation) leads to a good amount of arousal and production of pre-ejaculatory fluid.

Increased arousal or longer arousal time produces more fluid production, which builds up more pressure, which, upon release, splooges with more force.

[this](_URL_0_) article seems to express a similar opinion. [As does this post](_URL_2_) from some website I just found while googling.

So, like you're five, the more pumps you give your super soaker, the more pressure builds up, and the harder it [shoots](_URL_1_)

all links sfw

Question: How binary 1's and 0's translate into complex output?
Answer: 01000010 01100101 01100011 01100001 01110101 01110011 01100101 00100000 01111001 01101111 01110101 00100000 01100011 01100001 01101110 00100000 01101011 01100101 01100101 01110000 00100000 01100001 01100100 01100100 01101001 01101110 01100111 00100000 01101111 01101110 01100101 01110011 00100000 01100001 01101110 01100100 00100000 01111010 01100101 01110010 01101111 01100101 01110011 00100000 01110100 01101111 00100000 01101101 01100001 01101011 01100101 00100000 01110100 01101000 01100101 00100000 01100100 01100001 01110100 01100001 00100000 01111001 01101111 01110101 00100000 01110111 01100001 01101110 01110100 00101110 00100000

The above translates to "Because you can keep adding ones and zeroes to make the data that you want". 

Essentially a long enough string of ones and zeros can be made to represent any data. So with a long enough string of them, you can represent each pixel on your screen and the color it's supposed to be. This creates the image on your monitor.

Question: Why are doors much easier to close when my window is open?
Answer: Because by slamming your door you push a lot of air into the car. This causes additional air pressure to build up in the car, which pushes the door open.
Usually it takes at most a few seconds for the additional air to escape via various holes in the car, but that second is enough to hinder the door from closing.
If a window is open, the air in the car escapes immediatly through the open window and no pressure is build up.

Question: How muscle relaxers only affect skeletal muscles.  (Not organs/muscles like the heart).
Answer: They don't?

What causes death on many of them (if you overdose) is that it shuts down your heart or lungs.

Question: Why are black people in USA called "Afro-American" if most of them are actually not from Africa ?
Answer: You don't "have" to call these people something specific. I rarely hear "Afro-American" and mostly hear "black" and "African-America".

The reason we have these words is largely two fold:

The are a visible minority. If Irish-Americans were visibly different from others with European heritage, we might label them more often. As for those from Africa, they have vibrant culture, more melanin, and a distinct history and culture from many other people in the US. This has them singled out in some contexts. They deserve a term to describe themselves.

Second, their identities and histories were largely stolen from them. Slaves were not readily able to keep family histories, language or religion. So when these people of African descent were able to make their own choices, it made sense that they get to choose their own descriptors of this new shared identity.

Now that we have a lot of African immigrants, post slavery, it does complicate things. For instance, Obama probably shares no slave heritage but as a dark skinned man in the US he does share in some of the identity.

TL;DR just be respectful no matter what you are doing

Question: Where does the skin on the body stop being skin and become something else? Openings in particular. In the case of the face does it end at: lips? tongue? throat?
Answer: Skin is a specific type of tissue- epithelial tissue. The other tissue types are connective tissue, nervous tissue, and muscle tissue. 

Epithelial tissue covers body surfaces and lines most of our internal cavities. Connective tissues function for support and protection, such as bone, fat, cartilage, blood, and lymph. Nervous tissue receive stimuli and conduct impulses (neurons). Lastly, muscle tissue makes up, well, our muscles- skeletal muscle, smooth muscle, and cardiac muscle.

When considering the rectum to the anus, the rectum is lined with epithelium and the anal sphincter is made up of both a smooth muscle component and a skeletal muscle component. There are tissue transitions at these junctions, so the tissue will slowly become less epithelial in nature while also taking on more qualities of the smooth muscle until it is eventually all smooth muscle and no longer epithelium.

Question: What does a cat hear if I meow perfectly?
Answer: Your body language is probably wrong but if the meow itself is fine, your cat could find it amusing that you would meow and wonder what other secret talents you might have.

Question: What happens when lightning strikes a plane?
Answer: It flows through the most conductive parts (the aluminum outsides) and then down to the ground.  Lightning protection is a mandatory part of the design of aircraft, so nothing bad should happen.  It might leave a scorch mark, but maintenance can clean that off.

Question: What is Pedophilia exactly and why does it exist?
Answer: Paedophile here.

Paedophilia is the long-term romantic or sexual attraction towards prepubescent individuals by a post-pubescent individual.

It's unclear at present what contributes to its occurrence but recent neurological study suggests it may be a simple genetic anomaly such as those likely responsible for other sexual preferences on the edge of the bell curve.

It seems apparent that environmental/developmental conditions may contribute to the expression of a given potential sexual preference even though it is unlikely for them to be solely, or even largely, responsible for the existence of said potential.

Basically genetics loads a gun, circumstance hands it to you but it is upon the individual to decide when or upon who to pull the trigger.

Some choose poorly.

Many don't.

Question: Anti-Smoking Commercials
Answer: Tobacco companies actually fund a lot of the anti-smoking ads because they're legally required to. People know it's bad for them, but it takes constant exposure to that message for it to really sink in.

Question: Why does one feel better after vomiting when he/she is sick?
Answer: Because you've removed some or all of the element that was in your stomach and making you not feel well. That's the point of vomiting.

Question: How does changing your name work in the US?
Answer: You can change your name whenever you want.  ~~In the article it seems the woman did not have 2 forms of ID with the same name~~.  There is no restriction or requirement to change your name when you get married.

Question: What's the difference between osmolarity and osmolality?
Answer: The difference is that volume of the solvent is the denominator for [molarity](_URL_1_) and mass of the solvent is the denominator for [molality](_URL_0_).

This shouldn't be deleted as a simple answer, I hope.

Question: Why lightning doesn't knock planes out of the sky.
Answer: Okay, here goes: electricity will always take the shortest path to the ground right? Well, since a airborne plane isn't grounded, lightening strikes generally don't hit planes for this reason. However, they do sometimes hit home and when they do... nothing happens. As ACrusaderA said, the light might flicker but it's very uncommon for something serious to go wrong. [NASA](_URL_0_) actually did a bunch of tests on this back in the 80's by flying a F-106 through violent electrical storms and determined that the most likely outcome of an airborne lightening strike is that the lightening will simply pass harmlessly through the plane and head to the ground (where it was trying to go anyway). 

Source: NASA

Question: How do cemeteries maintain upkeep after all the plots are sold
Answer: CPA Here... Mortuaries and Funeral homes essentially are left with a perpetual liability in maintaining the burial grounds after all of the lots are full. Because of this states have enacted laws that require a certain dollar amount for every plot sold to go into an endowment trust. The earnings from that endowment trust are to be used to maintain the burial grounds in future periods.

Question: What does the term blockbuster mean and why is it related to movies?
Answer: In WWII, militaries started using very large bombs that were capable of destroying an entire city block. They were called blockbusters. Later, the term was applied to extremely popular movies that could convince everyone who lives in an entire city block to go watch it.

Question: Why does wind make it so much colder?
Answer: A person's body produces heat, which radiates off of them and warms the air around them. When the wind blows, it blows the warm air away and replaces it with colder air. Also, people lose heat when their sweat evaporates, and wind speeds that process.

Question: Why do companies like Nikon sell cameras that around 16 megpixels but phone companies like sony and Nokia sell phones that have 20 to 40 megapixel cameras?
Answer: Resolution is only one aspect of what makes a picture good. And once you can't see the pixels any more, increasing the resolution doesn't help (for reference, the 4K "ultra-HD" TVs they're selling now are only 8 megapixel).

The problem with having tons of pixels is that it means very little light hits any portion of the camera, so you end up with a lot of noise- the camera can't quite tell what color the pixel is supposed to be. The reason Sony and Nokia are making 40MP cameras is that they want to be able to average the light that hit 8 pixels and give you a great looking 5MP image instead of a crappy looking 40MP image. Nikon just gives their cameras bigger sensors which allows more light to hit each pixel, so they can just straight up give you a 16MP camera that works better than the 40MP cameras on those phones.

EDIT: whoops, sensors not lenses.

Question: ; how does sound work?
Answer: Sound is waves, like you said. These waves overlap on each other and add up or subtract. This is called superposition. If you have several instruments, at every point in space, their sounds add up to one waveform. This is an example of two waveforms adding up: _URL_0_.

There are two waves that are similar but slightly off. If you look at each part, you will see how the add up or subtract to make the bottom waveform.

Because of this, the speaker only needs to make the waveform of the sounds added together, not each one separately.

Question: Why some nouns for "a person who performs a certain task" end with -er while some end with 'or? e.g. Baker - one who bakes. Traveler - one who travels. Actor - one who acts. Counselor - one who counsels.
Answer: The -er ending has one of its origins in the Germanic languages. English is a Germanic language, as is (obviously) German, as well as Dutch, Danish, Swedish and Norwegian. These languages all evolved from the same language. This explains the -er in "baker" (compare with modern German "Bäcker").

But a lot of words from words that English borrowed from the French in the period during the Middle Ages. It's just coincidence that it looks like the Germanic -er and has nearly the same function. This is the case with "butcher" (the modern German is "Metzger", so "butcher" actually comes from the same origin as modern French "boucher". Languages evolve over time, and this ending actually comes from the Latin ending -arius.

The -or ending, though, also comes from Latin, but not from -arius; instead, it comes from -ator. An example is "imperator" which gives us English "emperor".

Question: Why do people use complicated #hashtags? Doesn't it defeat the purpose?
Answer: A lot of hashtags are for the sake of reducing character usage and also to look cool. 

Unless your friend is a very popular and influential person, he won't really be starting any hashtag trends. And there are some trending #tags that are pretty complicated, but these are started by popular people like music artists, etc.

Question: Why is police brutality against African Americans becoming so prevalent now?
Answer: It was always prevalent, it's just that with the advent of social media and similar things that the stories spread like wildfire instead of being local stories that aren't able to gain any traction. The advent of everyone having a phone with a camera on it as well is leading to the rise of mass awareness, as before there usually wasn't explicit proof.

Question: How are statistics like "children die every 16.3 seconds from hunger" determined?
Answer: Count the number of children who died over the last year and divide by the number of seconds in a year.

Question: What happens to sea creatures (primarily larger animals like whales and sharks) when a tsunami hits?
Answer: Out in the open ocean, where whales and sharks mostly hang out, a tsunami is no big deal - it's just a momentary pressure wave moving through the water; the water isn't really "flowing" anywhere. But close to shore it's different; first the sea level drops which could strand them, and then the sea roars back in which could injure them in collisions with debris, etc.

Edit: they could also end up stranded on land when it's over. But I don't remember hearing anything about this kind of thing happening with the Japan or Indian ocean tsunamis.

Question: Why is it you can sue drug companies for bad drugs but not the FDA who approved them to be sold on the market? Why are they not able to be punished if they were the ones that allowed it to be released to begin with?
Answer: As far as [I am aware of the process](_URL_0_), FDA just reviews the test results and other data supplied by the manufacturer. Test data can be colored to look better than it actually is, or due to limited sample size simply not exhibit the problem that leads to suing.

Question: [Internet] How do the sign with google/Facebook options on many websites work, and is it truly safe to use it?
Answer: Google and Facebook uses something called OAuth2, when signing up with Google on another website, you get redirected to the Google sign in page, which is secure. The website you're signing up cannot get your password this way. On the sign in page, you'll see a list of what the website you're signing up for can do with your account (most of the time it just gets your email address and your name), make sure to read this list before accepting. After you've hit accept, you get redirected to the website again and the website reviews receives the information you accepted to give them.  
  
This is a very secure and convenient way of signing in, I use it all the time.

Question: Why it is easier to see something in the dark with my peripherals than it is while staring directly at it.
Answer: The peripheral vision is more sensitive to movement and contrast. This trait was formed as a way to catch predators trying to sneak up on you. This might have something to do with it.

Question: Why does massaging a sore muscle bring pain relief, but touching an acute injury hurts?
Answer: Hello! Here is as ELI5 as I can make it:

Imagine the spinal cord as a thin wire that branches into smaller wires at body side of things. The tip of each branched portion is responsible for delivering messages corresponding to different kinds of stimuli (touch/pain/temperature etc.). Because the spinal cord is thin (keep in mind this is simplified), different signals compete to travel up the spinal cord and be "felt."

To address your question directly, muscle soreness is helped by rubbing because rubbing introduces a new kind of stimuli. Before rubbing, dull pain stimulus from your muscle soreness was moving up the spinal cord uncontested. After rubbing, the dull pain is competing with your new touch input. Thus you "drown out" the pain signal with touch signal.

Rubbing a cut doesn't work the same way because your input is activating both the touch and the pain receptors in that area. In such regions, pain receptors are often hyperactive, which causes them to outcompete other input.

Hope that helps!

(Some of the more astute neuroscientists will realize that I left out Lateral Inhibition, but I'll let you Google that on your own)

Edit: grammar

Question: the difference in 1st, 2nd, 3rd degree burns
Answer: Think of it in terms of how many layers the burn affects. 1st degree burns affect the epidermis, top-most layer. Symptoms are redness, swelling, and pain. 2nd degree affects the dermis, the tissue under the epidermis. This is when burns look "shiny", because of exposed tissue fluid. 3rd degree penetrates the dermis and starts affecting deeper tissue, like muscle.

Question: Why do the have peanuts or some sort of nuts at bars? Do they taste good with beer, or maybe sobers people up? Or even the opposite?
Answer: It is to make you buy more drinks. 

They are salty, which makes you thirsty, which makes you more likely to order more drinks. That is why bars will have nuts, pretzels, and other salty things.

Question: How are TV Shows made?
Answer: It depends on the show and the format. Half hour sitcoms shot before a live audience (aka "three camera" shows) do tend to be put together in one week, although the script writing runs a bit ahead of that.  
      
Normally, a half hour "one camera" (shot like a movie, no audience) show would be shot in five days, and a one hour in eight days -- but that's just the actual shooting. Pre-production, which includes writing the scripts (and creating the overall story for the season), necessary set, costume, etc., design, casting, getting clearances (music, names of people and things in the show, etc.) would ideally run about six weeks ahead of the shoot date -- sometimes more, sometimes less. Post production (editing the show together, getting producer and network approvals, making sure it fits within the allotted time) is usually about the same length as post.  
     
And this is all enormously over-simplified. Depending on whether it's a new or established show, whether it's before the episodes have started airing or after, whether the producers know yet if they've been renewed and/or picked up for an entire season, which actor was just busted trying to sell meth to a fourteen year-old hooker, or some world event makes a story arc suddenly badly timed and tasteless... all of that can affect the timing, although the actual shooting time is pretty standard, because that's a contractual thing, mainly with the DGA and SAG.  
      
TV is like the law and sausage, though -- if you enjoy it, you really don't want to see it being made.

Question: How do red light cameras know not to snap a picture when you can make a right turn on a red light?
Answer: They give you "clearance" to make that turn without a ticket once they detect your speed has dropped to zero within an assigned zone. If you just rolled through without stopping you'd get a ticket.

Question: If the common cold is so common, why haven't we developed something to make us immune?
Answer: My science teacher explained it so well when I was in 6th grade. Pathologists can feel free to correct me. 
     Basically, every cold you get is unique. Every single time you have a cold, it is caused by different germs and every time you get that cold, you are immune to it. However, there are so many types of cold causing bacteria that becoming immune to all of them is more a question of statistics.

Question: Why can one slightly dripping tap keep me up all night but a thunderstorm allows me to sleep better?
Answer: Thunderstorms produce rain, producing white noise, that and other sounds that we find soothing lull some people to sleep. Noises are just annoying.

Question: What is the logic behind thinking that getting rid of Assad, something good will happen?
Answer: It turns out the guy who's been bombing his own people for 6 years may actually be the reason there's a civil war. There will not be an end to the civil war with Assad and his government in charge.

That doesn't mean the only two options are "Give him a high five and say 'keep it up, buddy.'" and "Invade Syria, depose him, and leave." IMO we should have tried to get Russia to put pressure on the Assad regime to back down in 2011 (Russia has had a lot more clout in Syria than the US for decades) on the condition that a replacement government remain amenable to hosting Russia's naval bases. Hard to do something like that these days. 6 years of brutal civil war have a way of hardening opinions.

Question: How did the casual pepper-spraying cop get $30k when any psychological distress from the event would have been directly his fault?
Answer: Workers Compensation is NOT normally about whose fault it is. (as opposed to normal civil actions). Instead, Workers Compensation is a statutory scheme that legally requires employers to pay for any and all injuries that arise out of the performance of the job.

Contrary to what other posters may have stated. This did not appear to be a settlement. And, as such, was not intended to be less than the cost of future legal proceedings.

While I don't know the specific details of this case. Generally, there are very few and limited defenses to a Workers Compensation action. So long as he was acting in his official capacity (whether right or wrong), he would ordinarily be eligible for benefits.  

Usually each state has a set amount of compensation (normally based on a set number of weeks) that an injured employee could receive per injury. Thus, a back may be worth 1000 weeks and a pinky toe worth 10 weeks. The Workers Compensation board likely found the injury to be compensable, and then applied his salary to the requisite equation for formulating the total award for his distress.

Question: Why does razor burn happen?
Answer: Lots of reasons.  

Senstive skin.  

Skin's reaction to chemicals used.  

Worn blade.  

Pressing too hard.

Shaving "against the grain" (in the opposite direction of how the hair grows, which pulls the hair more as you shave it, causing irritation.)

Shaving too close, and winding up with ingrown hairs, although this is really razor bumps and not burn.

_URL_0_

Among others regarding the topic.

It is important to have a *clean* area, and to soften the hair being shorn.  In my case, I shave my head in the shower after washing it completely first, then lather and shave.  I then clean off the rest of me, then get out of the tub and immediately shave my beard, and this has helped to reduce my burn issues to zero.  And hot water for rinsing the blades.  I use just Dove soap for the head shaving, but use Edge Gel sensitive for the beard.

As far as the 'against the grain' problem, well... it would help if my hair all grew the same direction. :p

Question: the difference between how music was generated on old game consoles and new ones.
Answer: >  ELI5: the difference between how music was generated on old game consoles and new ones.

Early video game systems used digital synthesizers on a chip, but the type of synthesizer usually depended on the system and its chip. For example, the NES soundchip generated approximations of pulse/square wavesforms and sawtooth waveforms using digital techniques. Composers were afforded some ability to change the amplitude and shape of these waveforms, and were able to sequence them to produce music. The Commodore 64 was able to generate approximations of various waveforms, but had the added benefit of a basic analogue filter to smooth out the resulting sound. The Sega Genesis, and some early arcade games and computer sound cards, used a synthesis technique called frequency modulation, where a sine wave is used to modulate another sine wave to produce complex timbres. Typically these soundchips were able to synthesize and sequence several different sounds simultaneously in order to produce the sense of multiple "instruments". Bear in mind the bitrate of the waveforms being produced by these synthesizers was typically low, resulting in a harsher sound.

During the early 1990s sampling technology become more accessible to microchip developers. For example, the SNES and Amiga computers were fitted with microchips which behaved like basic samplers, which allowed for the sequencing and pitch-shifting of small samples of digitally recorded audio. Usually these samples were individual notes from an instrument, and when several were played back at once in a musical sequence a full and varied musical composition was possible. Most PS1 and N64 games utilized sampling technology as well, although there are exceptions. 

Music generated through either one of these means is typically called a "chiptune" by fans and musicians. Etymologically the word developed in relation to music made with "tracker" software on Amiga computers specifically, but it has since gained a wider meaning.

Newer video game consoles don't *generate* music at all. Rather, they have a chip for the *playback* of the digital audio recording of an entire songs, not unlike playing an MP3 or WAV file in WinAmp.

 >  On a retro console like an NES or Atari 2600, the game cartridge would be so small that it would impossible to store audio even if it were very compressed. So my understanding is... the cartridge contains midi data and the sounds are played and generated by chips on board the console?

The cartridges *don't* contain MIDI data, but rather a unique communication protocol used to control the console's digital synthesizers. Usually the protocol was developed by the game developer, rather than the console manufacturer. By comparison MIDI contains far more information (and thuse would take up more space on a ROM chip) than these unique communication protocols usually would.

 >  I have seen electronic artists actually wire up old Gameboys to get sounds from them. Are the sound chips effectively digital synthesizers?

Yes, but it's worth mentioning very few artists develop their own tools. For example, GameBoy musicians usually use [Little Sound DJ](_URL_0_) or a similar homebrew project. These types of tools are made possible by an incredibly *loosely-related* hacking community that is also responsible for ROM translations, ROM hacks and even video game piracy.

 >  then on newer consoles like the N64 it sounds like samples are being used, where are these stored? Is there a sound set then that every game soundtrack was limited to?

Indeed, *most* N64 games utilize an onboard sampler chip. Unfortunately very little is understood about the N64's sampling technology, unlike the SNES or PS1 sampler chips which are very thoroughly understood, but the data for N64 music is known to be held within the N64 ROM/cartridge. Playback of sound-rips from these ROMs is possible, but creating new music for playback on these consoles is met with varying degrees of success.

And now for my obligatory plug: I run a small subreddit dedicated to electronic music and instruments at /r/MusicGear I think you'll find some of the information in our online directory of resource -- the menu on the right-hand side of each page -- useful, particularly some of the "trackers" under the software directory. And I think you'll enjoy some of our submissions as well ;)

Question: How do warring countries share borders?
Answer: The borders in question were sites of cross border raids and shellings in both directions for years, until an uneasy peace settled in as a result of larger conflicts. Today the borders are constantly patrolled. The border between Jordan and Israel was mostly quiet after 1967, and no major flare-ups until the peace treaty in 1993. Syria withdrew forces several km after 1973 and its border was mostly patrolled by the UN on the Syrian side, and the Israelis on theirs. When Israel finally withdrew from South Lebanon, the UN took on a role as an observation force (mostly ineffective) while Israel constantly patrols the border. The consensus between the two sides is that they have little to gain from bombing eachother, and are mostly in favor of an uneasy peace as opposed to another conflict.

Question: Why do tortilla chips not come in individual-sized bags?
Answer: Because regular tortilla chips are a bit too bland and dry to eat by themselves and are mostly consumed at parties or a home environment, where they can be dipped in salsa.

Question: How do people born blind perceive objects/things in their mind and how accurate are they in terms of shape, size and colour when compared to the actual object?
Answer: They did an experiment back in 2011 by taking people who had been blind since birth, giving them a cube and a sphere, restoring their sight, then telling them to distinguish between them. The results were supposedly as good as if they had just guessed, meaning that blind people probably have different perceptions of objects than we do.

[Source](_URL_0_)

Question: What makes antibacterial soap different from regular soap?
Answer: Antibacterial soaps have chemical additives, like triclosan, that kill bacteria.  Regular soap simply washes them away, which is typically just as effective.  A quick google search says that the antibacterial agents in soap need to be left on for 2 minutes to be effective, so they are likely not doing anything beneficial in normal handwashing scenarios.

Question: How can we be confident that the leaked emails from the DNC are authentic? Couldn't anyone type up a bunch of incriminating emails, sign them "Debbie Schultz" and send them to Wikileaks?
Answer: People who work closely with DWS have confirmed that they are authentic.

[Before the announcement, Sanders on Sunday told Tapper the release of the DNC emails that show its staffers working against him underscores the position he's held for months: Wasserman Schultz needs to go. "I don't think she is qualified to be the chair of the DNC, not only for these awful emails, which revealed the prejudice of the DNC, but also because we need a party that reaches out to working people and young people, and I don't think her leadership style is doing that," Sanders told Tapper on "State of the Union," on the eve of the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia."](_URL_0_)

Sanders himself has commented on it, he has not tried to dispel them as a fabrication. Also, DWS has resigned because of the leak, further confirming that she felt it was inappropriate for her to continue to be the DNC due to her actions.

TL;DR: No-one has tried to disprove the emails as a fabrication and DWS's behavior reinforces the credibility of the leak.

Question: What is the purpose in using film grain on TV shows or Movies?
Answer: Well it depends on how it was filmed.

If it's film, then well the film grain comes from that. They aren't adding it on purpose.

If it's digital, then it is being added to mimic film.

Question: I throw a handful of sunflower seeds in my mouth. Some of them taste salty after I've cracked them open. Why?
Answer: Sunflowers, when under duress emit a "salty flavor" to discourage predators from eating further seeds. The reason they taste salty cracked open is that it comprises the integrity of the seed and therefore cannot reproduce. Predators that swallow the seed whole can then pass it on later through its feces.

Question: If black Americans are called African-American...Why aren't white Americans called "European-Americans"?
Answer: I know you referenced forms and polls, but I think it is important to note that plenty of "white" people in America call themselves Irish-American, or Italian-American. I think the continent vs the country has more to do with the black people who's ancestors were brought over in slavery and therefore they likely have no knowledge of WHERE in Africa they originated from.

Question: When do we observe red shift?
Answer: RobusEtCaleritas is right. You can imagine it this way: 

Imagine you're standing in the ocean at the beach, a short distance from the shore. Waves move toward you at a constant pace. Let's say you are hit by one swell every 10 seconds. If you start running towards the shore, you will be hit by less and less waves, maybe once every 20 seconds. The frequency of waves has decreased (redshift). If you run back out to the ocean, the frequency that you are hit by a wave will increase. Maybe once every 5 seconds. This is blueshift.

Question: How come my contact lenses are thin as paper, yet my glasses with same prescription have thick lenses
Answer: The contacts are closer to your eyes, so less refraction is necessary. There's a point when you can no longer where contacts because they'd be too big. There's also glass contacts. They're very painful though and you have to put them in with a special tool. They are a lot thicker.

Question: Why do guys send dick pics?
Answer: I work for a porn site.  We don't do any production, I'm rarely ever where a camera will shoot me (mostly an odd party).  However, guys send me as many dick pics as they do the models themselves.

I guess it's just the thought of a girl opening it gets some of them off.  Some probably think they might get some action? I don't know...someday I should start a dick pick site. LOL

Question: Why can aquatic animals grow to be so much larger than land animals
Answer: Because they don't have to life all that mass of the ground and trutch around with it. Buoyancy carries most of the weight.

Question: Why does everybody get mad at movies shot at 48 fps, but also a video games shot at below 60 fps?
Answer: Motion Blur.

As movies are filmed, the movement of the actors is recorded as still images. If they're moving fast enough, they blur slightly on the film. Our eyes interpret the blurring as motion more readily. At 48fps for a movie, the frames do not last long enough (1/48 of a second) to have recorded any significant motion blur due to the higher shutter speed. This makes them almost look video-game like and unnatural

Video games do not have motion blur. They are rendered directly as a series of still frames at full resolution with hard, crisp edges. Our eyes are good at seeing edges, and its easier to see the jumps from one frame to the next. At about 60fps, the still, fully rendered sharp images are coming fast enough that they appear as a smooth transition.

Question: Latent heat
Answer: water- > ice

is an exothermic reaction. The water gives off heat energy to turn into the less energetic ice phase.

ice- > water

is an endothermic reaction. The ice needs to absorb heat energy to turn into the more energetic water phase

---

"How can you change the amount of energy in a system without in some way changing the temperature or pressure"

Because that energy goes into changing the phase of the molecules.

---

"Constant temperature and pressure."

 Remember, **constant pressure=/=constant volume.**

Question: If one of the arguments for the moon landing being faked is solar radiation sickness, how are the ISS astronauts alright?
Answer: Because the moon landing was real and its all bullshit?

Question: What are fabergé eggs and why are they so expensive?
Answer: They are decorative eggs made by Peter Fabergé for the Russian Tsars. They were made out of precious metals and jewels, and were created solely in the Fabergé workshop and he only made 50 before the Russian Revolution. Only 42 are known to have survived (the newly found one should make it 43).

The eggs were basically these egg shaped objects that would sit on a table, some opened some had miniature portraits of the Tsars, all were extremely tedious to manufacture. They were all pieces of amazing jewelry, and were intended to inspire wonder and beauty to the Tsars, who were difficult to impress.

Question: How do analog synthesizers make sound?
Answer: synthesizers are one thing, making sound is another.

synthesizers "synthesize" signals. they basically generate all sorts of different wave patterns and signals and allow you to play with them.

a speaker is a device that takes in an electrical signal and transfers it into a mechanical signal. how he does that you might ask? in the same way an electromagnet works. when current rushes in a coil, it creates a magnetic field in the middle of the coil towards one of the openings of the coil with strength depending on the current's strength.

in the middle of the coil rests a magnet connected to a membrane that pushes air, and once the magnet sense that magnetic fiend it is pushed one side or the other, causing the membrane to either push or pull the air.

do that push-pull thingy fast enough (around 20-50 times per second) and you will start to hear a sound. once you reach a couple of thousand of these push-pull cycles per second, you get your average speaker.

Question: What happens to a person's debt when they are the last person of a family line and die?
Answer: It doesn't matter if you have family or not, debt cannot be inherited. If you do have debt when you die, your creditors can take from your estate to pay it off. If your estate is not large enough to pay the whole debt, the debt just goes away.

Question: Why does heating up food make it taste better?
Answer: Part of your sense of taste comes from the smell sensors in your nose.  This is why you can't taste much when you have a cold.

Heating food causes it to give off more steam and various vapors which can then get to your nose quicker and easier.

Question: If God sent His only son to earth and then people killed him, how did that mend the relationship between humanity and God? Surely it would only make God more pissed at us?
Answer: The coming of Jesus was, according to christian teachings, the fulfillment of prophecies that had been made generations earlier in Jewish history. According to the Old Law, given to Moses, the Hebrew people had to constantly make sacrifices (burnt offerings of their finest animals) to atone for their wrongdoings. There were established sacrifices for certain sins, and some sins could only be paid for through penalty of death (women caught in adultery were stoned). The purpose of this Old Law was to show the Hebrew people how in need of a savior they were; that they simply could not achieve righteousness without aid from God after their initial fall from grace in Eden. There were hundreds of prophecies telling of the coming of just such a savior, who would redeem the Israelite people and atone for all of their sins and make them clean and reconciled to God once again.

When Jesus came and died, he acted as the single greatest atonement sacrifice of all. He took on the sins of the entire world and "paid the toll" for humanity's sins, now and forever. Jesus was sent TO die; it was an established, known conclusion. Before he was arrested to be taken away to be tried and killed, he prayed to God, asking him to "take this cup from my hands, if it be Your will" for though he was fully God, he was also fully man (this is a confusing concept that takes some serious theology to explain). Any human being would be terrified of enduring what Jesus was about to do, and in fear and desperation he pleaded that God find another way to bring reconciliation to humanity. But he was obedient unto death, and in doing so redeemed the entire human race from our legacy of sin.

He then also rose to life, as christians believe, and "conquered death". Does this adequately answer your question?

Question: How have denim blue jeans maintained their popularity while pretty much every other type of clothing has gone in and out of fashion?
Answer: Cuts and styles of jeans have come and gone over the years.  Sure, denim's been a staple of fashion since the 60s (when they became acceptable to wear off the farm) but we've seen...

Different cuts: bell bottoms, boot cut, straight leg, skinny jeans, pipe legs (eg - JNCO), low-rider waist, normal waist, high-cut waist, etc

Different finishes: Indigo, stone washed, acid washed, galaxy washed, distressed, etc

Denim's a comfortable, durable, (originally) inexpensive fabric to work with.  It's no surprise that it's had a long life as typical American casual/semi-casual wear.

Question: Why are NFL quarterbacks overwhelmingly white while most other positions are held by black men?
Answer: The percentage of white quarterbacks in the NFL is 78. The percentage white americans is 72.

Question: Why can animals drink dirty water where as humans cannot?
Answer: This is a bit of a myth. Animals are just as susceptible to waterborne diseases as humans, and they can get sick and die from them. Deer in North America have been documented with giardia, a common waterborne illness.

On the other hand, waterborne diseases aren't as deadly as you might think. After all, all animals evolved drinking unfiltered water and they haven't gone extinct from waterborne illness. If you drink from an open water source you won't keel over and die; you probably won't even get sick from drinking it once. However humans are sedentary and drinking from a single unclean water source all your life means that you will get sick eventually. Also even if you won't die from a waterborne illness, it does mean that you might be off your feet for a few days or weeks; in public health the economic impact of disease is much more than just people actually dying. Animals, not having to work and earn a living for themselves, don't have this problem.

And also, humans are smart and have an understanding of risk. Even if there's a 1% chance that you'll get sick from drinking dirty water, and then a further 1% chance of dying, would you take those odds? Not many people would actually die but we generally don't like to tolerate any preventable death.

Question: What is the point to things like Origami Owl, Scentsy, Paparazzi Jewelry, etc. that use a consultant to sell?
Answer: It helps spread the word about the product without costly marketing fees. Consultants earn an income and sell the stuff to their friends and acquaintances. It's a good process for the company because they only have to pay a commission rather than employ people full-time and have to provide benefits.

Question: How do people who colorize photos know what color to make things?
Answer: Depends on the source photo. For example old photos with advertisement or firetrucks or uniforms, it can be deduced from modern colors what their original color was. Otherwise the colors are just chosen arbitrarily so that they seem realistic and suitable for the given time the photo was taken.

Question: Are humans still being naturally selected?
Answer: Natural selection works that individuals who have genes which improve their capability to reproduce are more likely to survive and thus the traits are kept (of course being more likely to be alive affects the chances of you reproducing) the thing is, humans are so at the top of their game that we no longer need to adapt to specific environments, just look, humans are **all around the globe**, and pretty much most men eventually find a wife, natural selection does work though in a way that someone who appears unattractive is less likely to find a women or a wife, but this is sexual selection, in my opinion Natural selection is no longer an impact on civilized man because even cripples and people with mental deficits manage to survive until they die of old age. 

But, some cases do remain where natural selection is strong, such as HIV and disease resistance in africa or other tribes.

**TL;DR:** Humans find it way too easy now to survive thus natural selection is not very strong to us besides disease resistance in areas where medicine is rarely easily provided, instead sexual selection is still here but more in a form of ''Cultural selection''.

Question: Why do my earplugs tangle up all the time?
Answer: Someone published a 
[paper](_URL_0_) on this in PNAS quite some time back. It's kind of cool.

As a quick and dirty summary, what they found was that when jostled, strings tend to form coils, which then form loose weaves though the other strands. I guess it's similar to braiding and weaving. At that point they're pretty well tangled, and you're pretty well pissed off.

Question: How our internal clocks work
Answer: I'm not an expert in the field, so if there's anyone who can correct me, please do.
But if I remember rightly, when light is detected by the eyes, the hormone melatonin is released - this is a stress hormone. For example, when you wake up on a winter morning, melatonin levels are lower(since its darker at around 7, compared to summer); you'll feel groggy and sleepy. When you take a shower with the light on (or even use your phone or whatever) light is detected, thus melatonin is released, and you'll feel more awake. I also believe there's something about humans having "day cycles" of "about 24hours", but I can't remember exactly what happens here.

Question: Why is Australia just NOW getting Netflix?
Answer: Netflix has wanted to go to Australia for a long time. [Last year](_URL_0_) was the first time they mentioned it publicly, but if previous markets are anything to go by then the negotiation process started long before that.

But it was a much more complicated process than they anticipated. Securing the rights to distribute the content in AU was a major PITA. Apparently the entire world has decided to fuck over Australia, where media costs are astronomical compared to the rest of the world. I'm not sure if that has to do with the strength of the Australian censorship/ratings process or simply a case of "because they can". Either way, that's why Netflix AU is focused mostly on Australian shows (that aren't available on Netflix in other countries). It will take them time to build up an international catalog, while at the same time slowly letting Australian shows "out of the box" so to speak, so that international viewers can check them out.

The few who did agree to join Netflix AU, Netflix had to fight to get the rights and it was an uphill battle. The content's owners were afraid of "diluting the market" with a reasonably priced alternative.

So don't blame Netflix for waiting so long. They are in the business of making money, and they are focused on growth. Expanding to new markets is a priority for them. It's just that not all of their partners were ready to allow it.

Question: Glycemic Index  &  Glycemic Load of foods.
Answer: Ok, so we start with carbohydrates, an essential macronutrient. No matter that form your carbs take, your body will digest it into sugar.

Glycemic INDEX is a measure of how FAST your body will digest the carbs into sugar, and thus how it will spike your blood sugar. A high index makes your blood sugar rise and then drop relatively quickly. The are often foods that leave you feeling hungry again soon, like white rice and noodles. 

Something with a low index takes longer to digest. Blood sugar takes a longer time, rising and dropping smoothly, and you feel full longer. Beans and oatmeal for instance. 

Glycemic LOAD is basically the "load" (amount) of carbs in a serving of food - how "hard" it will hit you. The line labeled Carbohydrates on the label mostly covers it. You take that, and cross reference with glycemic index to get load. 

Some foods like watermelon have a high Index, but a small number of carbs per serving, so the Load is considered low.

Question: Why are my parents so scared of Jeremy Corbyn's rise? (UK)
Answer: I am assuming that your parents come from a Conservative background, but they could be Labour supporters too. 

In the 70s, the UK had lots of problems with industrial action. There were frequent power cuts. Edward Heath's Conservative government introduced a three-day working week so that we wouldn't run out of coal when the miners were on strike.

Things reached a peak in 1978, when James Callaghan's Labour (the last British government that could be considered left wing) proposed a cap on public sector pay rises. Hospital staff went on strike, so only emergency patients could be treated. Bins were not emptied. There were power cuts, and the cold weather further harmed the economy.

Thatcher came in, made the public sector much smaller, and stopped strikes from really affecting daily life. Labour remained left wing, particularly under Neil Kinnock but also Michael Foot. It was only when Tony Blair took the leadership following John Smith's sudden death that the party looked electable again. In the intervening time, the Conservatives could basically do whatever they wanted.

tl;dr: the most recent left-wing Labour government was pretty weak, but no worse than their Conservative contemporaries; when Labour are weak, the Tories can do whatever they want.

Question: Why are there people against the development of renewable fuels and energy sources?
Answer: pretend you have a lemonade stand, you have to go out, find the ingredients, mix it, and you make a product that people need because it's hot. You open several lemonade stands because more and more people want/need your lemonade. Then, someone comes along with a lemonade stand and all they have to do is hold up a bucket and lemonade just falls in, you'd be mad because they would soon take your business especially since everyone finds out that while you're collecting and mixing ingredients you're shitting all over the sidewalk, the store, the lemonade stand and them and they only found out because the person who opened the other lemonade stand pointed it out

Question: Graham's number
Answer: I know you're asking about how massive it is, but it's important to understand that most of the time in everyday life we use numbers to *measure* things or *count* things - how much money do we have? How tall is that building? How many days until I graduate?

In a sense, Graham's number was invented to count something - but it was so hard to count that it ended up being a number larger than anything anyone every tried to do something with before.

A Googol is 1 followed by a hundred zeros, or 10000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000.

That's a big number! In fact, a Googol is more than the number of atoms in the universe, as best as we can determine. It's more than the number of times a Quartz crystal has oscillated since the beginning of the universe. It's bigger than the number of Chess games.

Basically a Googol is already a big enough number, but you can write it down in a minute or two.

Graham's number is so large that you couldn't even write down its digits given all the time in the universe!

More history:

A mathematician named Ron Graham was trying to solve a particular type of mathematical question of the form "how many X's would you need in order to guarantee that Y is true"?

A simple example of this type of question is: how many people would you need to have at a party such that there's guaranteed to be at least one group of 3 people who all mutually know each other, or one group of 3 people who all are mutual strangers (or both)? The answer turns out to be 6.

Now if you ask how many people would you need to have at a party such that there's guaranteed to be at least one group of 4 people who all mutually know each other, or one group of 4 people who all are mutual strangers? It turns out that this is a very hard problem, and nobody has figured out the exact answer yet.

Ron Graham was working on a similar type of problem. He suspected that the answer was small, but he couldn't prove it. However, he could prove that the answer did exist by proving that it couldn't possible be larger than this one number, the number we now call Graham's number.

It's surprising because the number is ridiculously, absurdly large, and yet it's absolutely required in order for his proof to work. Therefore it's the largest number that was used to prove something in mathematics.

Nobody uses the number for anything practical, but people study it as a useful technique sometimes. Often in mathematics proving that an answer exists and giving a really large bound for it helps others to estimate the answer more accurately later.

Question: What is credit and why is it necessary?
Answer: * I'd say yes but the better answer is it can be, because people with bad credit will be able to get (very high interest) options that people with no credit might not be able to.

* You build credit by getting credit. You have to get a first card from someone, usually a $250 or $500 limit. If you, for whatever reason, absolutely can't get one, you can get a secured credit card where you have to put down a deposit upfront and that will build your credit.

* Having a credit card will cause you to have a credit score to begin with, and paying it on time and keeping the balance reasonable will cause it to go up, which will allow you to have access to more credit.

Credit's necessary if you ever want to finance a house or car purchase. If you pay for things with cash, truth is, you can go through your whole life without it. But I don't mind the idea of other people letting me use their money as long as it's cheap enough.

/r/personalfinance can go into far more extreme detail but it's closer to ELI45.

Question: Why do low pressure systems produce unsettled weather whereas high pressure produces calm conditions?
Answer: Take a look at a picture like this:_URL_1_

Basically, (ignoring the orange line) the air mass UNDER the blue line is spinning clockwise while the airmass ABOVE it is spinning counterclockwise. Now, I might be mixing these up so please someone correct me if I'm wrong, but clockwise spinning air pulls air up, sort of like a hurricane does :_URL_0_  SO, this spinning air starts lifting (hence creating Low Pressure) moist air from the surface. The moist air turns into clouds and the clouds rain. Counterclockwise motion pushes air down, creating high pressure. The air is pushes down is dry, so it tends to be clear and sunny.

Question: How do mechanical pool tables recognize the cue ball?
Answer: Pool tables were invented a while back in less enlightened times. There's a white entrance  &  a coloured entrance.

Question: What exactly is the issue with money in politics?
Answer: The issue isn't really money in politics.  The issue is a disproportionate amount of money coming from select special interests.  Compared to how much money this country spends advertising toothpaste or cars or beer, the Presidential election cycle is cheap.  

For example, there are a handful of extremely high net worth individuals who have the power to determine who will have a real shot at winning the primary and becoming the nominee of the party.  That control is by no means absolute - they proved (again) in 2012 that they can bankroll fringe candidates until their checkbooks bleed and the primary voters won't endorse those candidates, but it is pretty clear that they can select from amongst a group of moderate candidates which will and which will not seriously contest the primary and the money they make available can be the factor that determines if a person runs, or not, and if they run, how seriously their candidacy is taken by the media and party infrastructure.

This may or may not bother you depending on how much you believe the winnowing process of the primary contest is actually being impacted by this money (the alternative is that it's just amplifying a contest that would likely play out roughly the same regardless of the injection of high net worth money but of course it's impossible to see the counter-factual world where that happens.)

In the general election a select group of special interest groups can substantially influence the outcome of a presidential election, and often statewide elections for Senators and Governors. They get less traction but still have an impact on Congressional races - enough traction that the people who run for Congress ignore them at their peril.

These interests are the AARP (retired people), the Teacher's unions (and organized labor in general, although the Teachers provide the bulk of the cash and the grassroots effort), evangelical religious leaders, the NRA, and an amorphous network of large business interests who aren't dumb enough to cluster into a visibly addressable target.

Generally speaking in the Presidential election, 45% of the voters split for each candidate based on party and the election is decided by the 10% who are willing to pick a candidate based on the campaign. Sometimes those ratios are distorted by historical events or by turnout but that's pretty close to the overall average for the past several decades of Presidential campaigns.

That 10% isn't evenly distributed. Because of a quirk in the Constitution, states, not the popular vote, frame the election. Most states award their electors winner-take-all (although a few do proportionate representation).  Due to this system and due to the demographics of where people live who vote strongly by party, only a small number of states actually determine the victor.  Those states are usually Florida, Ohio, Virginia and to a lesser degree New Mexico and Nevada.

THAT means that concentrating the money into a handful of states has the potential to significantly influence the outcome of an election, and it generates an arms-race mentality where both parties assume that if they fall materially behind in spending, they'll automatically lose. So they'll make whatever deals are required to get the funding they think they need since "any price" is the right price in a winner-take-all election.

Question: Since black absorbs light, exactly how much warmer will you be in a black shirt, contra a white one? And also, are black people on average hotter than the rest?
Answer: Can I add to you question why women in Arabic countries wear black robes (burqas)? Wouldn't it make more sense to wear white ones?

Question: difference between a lunar eclipse and a new moon.
Answer: A new moon simply isn't being lit by the sun from our point of view.

A lunar eclipse has the moon in the earth's shadow.

_URL_0_

Question: What is a Grand Duchess/Duke, who is eligible to become one, and what do they do?
Answer: A Grand Duke, is usually the ruling monarch of a minor nation.  The title is less of senior Duke and more of a junior King.  

Small provinces changed hands frequently in Europe, often without changing nobility, and often found themselves as independent states.  That noble would find themselves as the head of state, more than a mere Duke, but did not want to presume themselves to be the equals of the true European powers.

In addition, the nobles under a Grand Duke often enjoyed greater freedom than they would under a King, and would use the title to limit their monarch's power.

To become a Grand Duke, you start of as a Duke, wait for your country to go to war, then have your province made into an independent state.

Question: How do trees produce oxygen in the winter?
Answer: 1. not all trees drop leaves (eg. conifers)

2. not all regions got cold season where trees need to drop the leaves

Question: Does bank account with all money which my country hold exist ?
Answer: I once heard a guy on the radio who told that he performed transactions on the Dutch government national bank account, account number "1" at The Netherlands Bank. For instance, when the Netherlands needs to pay fees to the European Union, it is done from this bank account. I'm not sure if this account "holds all the country's money", but these kind of national bank accounts exist.

Question: Flatness
Answer: There is nothing tangible that we humans have that is perfectly 2 dimensional, but it is rather a concept. Atoms themselves, as far as we know, have a definite thre dimensional shape. Most sufaces that seem flat to us are actually very not flat. A sheet of glass probably is quite bumpy, atomically at least. 
The best way I can think of getting something as flat as possible would be to get a nonpolar liquid (lets say mercury) and put it on a "flat surface". The gravity would force the mercury to spread around evenly. 
About your mom... No comment

Question: Since cats and dogs have multiple offspring at once, are they considered genetic twins? If not, can dogs and/or cats have twins?
Answer: yes and or no. So twins are born at the same time and can be identical or fraternal. fraternal twins are genetically siblings, while identical twins have identical DNA. 

Fraternal twins happen when two separate eggs are released and fertilized very close in time to each other so they both attach to the womb and are born at the same time. This often happens for dogs and cats since their bodies almost always release multiple eggs at the same time.


Identical twins happen when one fertilized eggs splits early in development into two eggs and they each grow seperately into a fetus (baby). This can happen with one egg in the womb in the presence of others. So it is possible for a dog or cat to release say 2 eggs both to be fertilized, one of those eggs to split into two, and.....give birth to one fraternal triplet and a pair of identical twins. in this case the first puppy is genetically a sibling to it's two siblings, and the twin puppies are identical genetically to each other.

Question: Why do trips seem to last longer while going than while coming back?
Answer: I feel like it's more because of the anticipation/ possible fear of actually reaching your destination. After you arrive and do what you're there to do I'd say the journey back to where you came from is spent more thinking about what you did. Example: An 8 year old on its way to Disneyland (no sponsorship intended) all excited and hyper thinking about all the things it'd do so the anticipation is killer. But I'm not a psychologist 🤷‍♂️

Question: Why am I so ticklish?
Answer: You are ticklish because humans often find the unexpected funny. You did not expect someone to touch you, but your skin's nerves were stimulated. The same goes for most humor - jokes are funny because you were told A, so expect B; but the punchline/followup is H. This is also why it is not possible to tickle oneself, you expect the contact.

Question: How are scholarships with ethnicity requirements legal?
Answer: It's called affirmative action or positive discrimination. Basically discriminating in favour of certain disadvantaged groups that have possibly suffered as a result of discrimination.

Question: How does this even work from a structural engineering standpoint?
Answer: I can't comment on that specific structure since it could be a cheat such as you described using internal support of some type. However, such a structure is possible in theory. It is a complex looking version of an arch.   
  
Notice how the bricks are higher in the middle? Those bricks rest on the ones below them just like a regular arch. The twist makes it seem more impressive but the idea is the same.   
   
The hardest part to keep from falling is the almost straight section at the bottom near the central pillar but if you look you will see that the twist means that the bricks arch up more than any other section as they approach the centre. This gives more stability where it is needed.

Question: Why is Japan, a country spread across multiple Islands so much more united than the UK, a country spread across multiple Islands.
Answer: They both *did* have regional identities. The difference is that the UK said "Ok, you can be Scottish, whatever, as long as you help with the Empire and whatnot", but the Japanese said "No. You are Japanese. This is your culture. Now speak Japanese and follows Japanese customs. Do it."

There are benefits and drawbacks to each strategy.

Question: Why don't car manufacturers make windshields coated with hydrophobic surfaces so that water rushes off and leaves it dry instead of windshield wipers?
Answer: To my knowledge, there are no optically clear hydrophobic coatings.  additionally, they may not leave the windshield as clear as you might hope to.  and it would likely wear off with the constant sandblasting of highway dust.

cant wipe away snow, cant use washer fluid.

all that aside, good luck convincing the regulators and buyers that they dont need windshield wipers.

Question: Why do the Japanese, who are known for having a conservative culture, seem to have such outlandish media?
Answer: Living in a rather stiff culture often drives those who decide to break out do so with gusto.

Question: Why we need people to represent us in the government when we have technology to do otherwise?
Answer: Time.

QQ before I begin - without going to Google, who is your rep in the House?  Your Senator?  Your city commisoner?  I'm going to guess you got at least 2 of those wrong.

Bills which are being considered for vote can be thousands of pages long.  There are dozens of those bills being considered everyday in committees and the actual voting floor.  Congressmen have staffs of people who's only job it is to help them write and understand the bills that are coming up for a vote.  

Remembering my first question, do you believe that you have enough time to read thousands of pages a week in order to be well informed enough to vote on EVERYTHING?

Question: Value Engineering
Answer: Value engineering is a term that refers to changing something about a project (in your case, a building) in order to reduce construction cost.  Value Engineering generally has the connotation of meaning "cheaper" in the sense of something being of lower quality, but the goal of value engineering is to maintain quality/performance while reducing the cost -  increasing the value. 

LY5: let's say you want to build a ladder so that you can get up to the cabinet and have some cookies before your mom comes home. Time spent making this ladder means less time for cookies later which means fewer cookies.  You could spend an hour building a sturdy ladder our of your Lego and k'nex, but why do that when you can just stack some boxes on top of each other? One is much faster and you get the same results (reaching the cookie jar) at an increased value (more time for eating cookies)

Question: Principle vs law vs theory vs theorem
Answer: **Law** - a statement based on experimental observations. Laws don't offer explanations. They just state what has been observed repeatedly. They often involve equations.

**Theory** - a theory offers an empirical explanation of the world. It is tested through repeated experiments and observations. A theory also offers predictions, which can be tested to falsify a theory.

**Theorem** - Theorems are found in math. They are statements that have been proved using math axioms or previously proved statements (theorems). Unlike theories, theorems are deductive.

**Principles** - Are similar to laws. They are often said in their non-equation form.

With that said, these definitions are often not followed, and there is a lot of overlap in the naming anyway. Often scientific ideas get historical names that don't follow the definitions, and these names stick.

Question: How does a cut Christmas tree "drink" water if it's dead?
Answer: Because the tree isn't dead yet, it's in the process of dying

Question: How can a US execution end up costing $3 million?
Answer: The injection itself isn't the issue, it's the perpetual legal battles which will happen in the three decades which will pass before the execution takes place.

Appeals filed by the criminals awaiting execution need to be processed and addressed. Lawyers and court systems will be tied up for years, and all of that costs money.

Question: Why can't I eat, or feel like vomiting when I'm in a stressful situation?
Answer: The stress and anxiety are part of your "fight or flight" mechanism. Basically, anything that does not help in your immediate survival is shut off and the parts of you body that help you either fight, or run away are sent into overdrive. 

You are an impala. You see into the lions eyes. She is kneeling in the grass and then jumps into a dead sprint straight at you. Before you can even react, your body is running as fast as possible away from the threat. Inside, your blood courses with adrenaline, and blood is redirected to your muscles. You don't need your brain to tell your legs to move, so that starts to shut down as your body goes into overdrive with every ounce of strength put into your legs. Your stomach and intestines are useless at this moment because it takes so long to extract the food from your gut that it won't be able to help you in the next 20 seconds, so you vacate your bowels, and your stomach stops digesting food. You basically run until you can't run anymore, and the lion backs off as it loses endurance (and keep in mind, you're running for your life and it's just running for a meal, so it gives up much easier than you). You start to settle down, and your stomach is churning, your vomit, your are light headed, sick, and tired, but back with your buds and out of harms way. 

In humans, we generally don't run into lions, or anything dangerous. We get anxious about work, school, and just life in general. Long term stress can mimic your fight or flight to an extent, and somewhat cause the stomach and intestinal issues, but not to the same extent as the running impala. 

You basically don't need to digest food when your fight or flight response kicks in, and if you get really stressed, you might vomit. Luckily, we are not among the mammals that generally vacates it bowels when it's startled, but it does happen to some... be thankful it's just your stomach!

Question: How does snoring work?
Answer: > Can i tell if i'm snoring?

For the most part, no. Even if it suddenly wakes you up, you're unlikely to initially realize that you were woken by the sound of your snoring.

 > How does snoring work?

Snoring is the sound produced when air passes through your pharynx while it's not fully open. In other words the part of your nose/throat that leads to the lungs isn't totally clear, so as air passes through the airway, it's turbulent and causes vibration. It's similar to how a whoopee cushion produces sound as the air passes between two thin layers of rubber and makes them vibrate.

Question: In places on Earth where the Sun doesn't set for many months, do plants keep doing photosynthesis for the entire period the Sun is up?
Answer: Yes! This is why world record cabbages (and other vegetables) are often grown in Alaska with permanent or near-permanent sunlight.  The combination of midnight sun and relatively mild temperatures allows for longer periods of photosynthesis and greater growth.  When the temperature gets too high however, photosynthesis declines. Studies of trees of the same species in Alaska as compared with those at lower latitudes show that total annual growth is roughly the same annually, but the Alaskan trees to it far faster in the summer time.  Interesting stuff!

Question: How does vertigo work and what do people that have it experience?
Answer: The human inner ear informs your brain (other senses) about your position in space. It is designed to help your eyes correct for changes in position for instance. It tells your bail what it needs to tell your muscles to do so you do not fall over but remain upright or in what ever position you are in. Vertigo is when the inner ear stops working right and the brain is sent confusing signals about your position. You may be standing straight upright but the inner ear is telling your body to lean over. Sometimes this makes you fall over.  It can make it impossible to walk.  It can make you throw up as sometimes it confuses your eyes and the room seems to spin. 

You can simulate some of this by spinning around very fast on a merry-go-round at the park or turning in place with your eyes closed for 60 seconds and then trying to walk.

People with vertigo sometimes can not trust what they see because their inner ear my be lying to them about their actual situation.

Question: What happens to the body when we (men) get "blue balls", is there another scientific name for it, and why does it hurt so bad?
Answer: It's called vasocongestion and happens when blood is "pooled" up in vessels in your scrotum/testicles.  When aroused blood rushes down there and if there is no release, the blood stays and swells the area. I get it very easily, sometimes just cuddling next to a pretty girl for a bit (unless I crank down before we hang out) will cause it.

Question: Why do some construction projects take so long?
Answer: Manpower is crazy expensive. It is by far the most expensive part of almost any construction project. If 100 guys can do in an hour what 10 guys can do in 9 hours, you hire the 10 guys. Every truck in that video has a driver in it who is spending most of his time sitting around waiting for the other trucks to get out of his way. That's a costly inefficiency.

So unless you absolutely need it done fast it's almost always cheaper to do it slow.

Question: If all fingerprints are unique and earth has 7 billion people. How is it possible that there are 7 billion unique fingerprints? Are the possibilities infinite? Before we are born, how does our DNA know our fingerprint isn't being used by another person?
Answer: First off, DNA doesn't directly affect fingerprints in the way you might think. Fingerprints are the result of chemical reactions in the womb; this is why identical twins have different fingerprints.

There are way, way more than 7 billion different combinations. Many estimates put it in the 10^20 range or higher.

Now, is it possible for two people to have the same fingerprint? Yes, it's possible -- but for law enforcement purposes, it's pretty much a slam dunk, because there will almost *always* be some other evidence or fact that connects them to the crime.

It would be hard enough to convince anyone of a one in a bajillion chance of someone with the same fingerprint robbing the bank. It's even harder when you were known to be at the bank the day before casing it out.

Question: What is vevo, and why do all the music you tubers use it?
Answer: **TL;DR** In order to avoid legal troubles of posting music companies' content on their website (Youtube), Google set up VEVO so music companies could control their monetization.

[Link](_URL_0_) to a response by a YouTube software engineer who worked on the Vevo launch.

 > Youtube/Google was in danger of being sued by Sony Music/UMG music. To prevent a potentially devastating lawsuit, Google's CEO (at the time) Eric Schmidt made a deal with Doug Morris, CEO of Sony Music, to build a parallel video platform based on YouTube tech where Sony could control the monetization settings and sell their own ads. Vevo V1 was basically a shell website that hosted an embedded YouTube player which in turn loaded Vevo's own ad module at runtime. This allowed YouTube to keep the music video content, provided a link was present to the 'official' Vevo page (effectively, a rebranded YouTube page.) The videos were still hosted on YouTube.

Question: When you get married, does power of attorney automatically go to your spouse?
Answer: If you both die, your things would go to any kids you may have. If you don’t have kids, your property would go into probate and parents of both of you would have a chance to petition the court for your estate. A simple will prevents this. You can prepare a simple will very easily online and prevent that from happening. LawDepot, Rocket Lawyer, LegalZoom... all of them can do that for you for a small fee. LawDepot is free for first seven days, it walks you thru all the pertinent questions and drafts a legally binding copy.

Question: Why is Meth more pervasive in suburbs/rural communities and Heroin in more urban ones?
Answer: I do not know if that is true, but I do know making meth stinks up to high heavens, so areas with low population densities are easier for hiding its production.

Heroin needs to be shipped from more or less tropical areas, so if you're shipping it anyway, might as well bring to areas with high population density as then there are more customers nearby.

Question: How is it that Americans spend the most per student out of any other nation, yet there are constantly problems with school budgets?
Answer: infrastructure, teacher salaries, pensions, but probably mostly that there is vast differences in school budgets since they are tied to property taxes.  affluent areas skew the average, while the districts with financial troubles are typically in the poorest areas.

Question: Mineral Frakking
Answer: In a traditional oil/gas well, you are drilling into what is essentially a pocket of oil or gas.  It is *relatively* easy to extract, as it is either under pressure and blows out like air from a balloon, or you can pump water or something similar into the void containing the oil or gas in order to displace it towards the surface.

With fracking, the oil or gas is trapped in the layers of rock and is not easily extracted just by drilling a hole.  In order to get it out, you have to drill down to the rock layer containing the oil/gas, then drill horizontally along the layer.  After that you pump a slurry of water, lubricating minerals and various chemicals into the rock layer at high pressure, which  causes tiny cracks (FRACtures) to form in the rock, releasing the oil or gas so it can be pushed to the surface.

Question: Why is Mozart considered the greatest ever musical genius?
Answer: Highly, highly subjective...

But much of it would be attributed to his exceptional gifts at an insanely young age.  When you and I were learning how to tie our shoes he was transcribing hour long choral works in the back of a carriage ride home.  

So a lot of Mozart's "hype" for lack of a better word (not that he *isn't* a great genius and *doesn't* deserve it) stems from his incredibly prodigious childhood.  He was actually terrible with money later in life and a bit of a flake by many accounts:)

Question: Explain how "currently in the US whenever someone without insurance uses emergency medical services to save their life, how do the taxpayers end up paying for it"?
Answer: Let's say John Smith doesn't have health insurance.  He runs into a medical emergency (maybe a car accident) and goes to the ER.  He makes OK money, but he can't afford the $60,000 bill they slap him with.  So, the hospital negotiates with him and waves all their fees.  He just has to pay for the doctor, the medication, and the tests.  The hospital still has to make money, but it waves or renegotiates fees with uninsured people all the time.  So, they raise costs across the board for others.  

Now, let's say Fred Johnson doesn't have health insurance, and he is very poor.  He's had some health problems but hasn't gone to the doctor to get them looked at because he can't afford it.  He keeps putting it off until it's an emergency.  He goes to the ER, and they have to admit him.  Bills end up running about $100,000.  He has no hope of paying those off, so he doesn't pay any of it.  Well, if he had gotten preventative care and had gone to a doctor when the problems first started, it might have cost a couple hundred bucks.  Now, the debt is $100,000.  He's not paying for it, so who eats those costs?  Everyone else who goes to the ER.  The hospital, the doctors, the drug companies, etc... none of htem get paid for what was done for the patient.  So, prices are raised on everyone else who can pay.

The new health care mandate is going to make it so both John and Fred have insurance.  John makes enough money to pay for health insurance.  Now, he has to.  Fred does not make enough money to pay for health insurance.  Before, single men (even if they were very poor) could not get Medicaid for insurance.  Now, if they make under a certain amount of money, single men can get health insurance.  Fred might get Medicaid insurance now, or he can buy private insurance, and because he doesn't make much money, the government will give him a credit on his taxes every year to pay for most of the cost of his insurance.  Tax payers are basically paying for Fred to get insurance, but now Fred can get medical care when his problems first arise, when they're not expensive, instead of waiting to go to the ER when it is an expensive medical emergency.

Before, John Smith wasn't paying for health insurance.  Now, he is.  By paying the premiums as a healthy man, he is now helping insurance companies to pay for the preventative care of people like Fred Johnson.  Initially, expenses might go up as Fred and people like Fred all go in for doctors' visits for the first time in years.  Before long, expenses are going to go way down because insurance companies will be paying less money for emergency care.  Hospitals are not going to have to write off almost any hospital visits because almost everyone will ahve insurance.

Question: Restarting a computer
Answer: In a modern computer, the whole system is on the entire time during the reset. Telling the computer to reset makes it to go through the shut down process unmounting drives and the like, but at the end it doesn't tell the power supply to turn off as it would when pushing the power button. Instead, it orders the CPU and RAM to go back to a cold boot mode, essentially dumping whatever is in memory and reloading the BIOS/UEFI.

Question: How is there only one speed of sound? If I shout louder, why is there not more energy leading to a faster speed?
Answer: Think of throwing a rock in some water.  The ripples made move outward at a given speed.   Throw a much bigger rock (more energy) and the waves are much bigger but again propagate (move) outward at the same speed.   Similar to sound.   And light.  A bigger light... Say a million candlepower spotlight, doesn't go any faster than the light from a  birthday candle.

But also note that there IS more than one speed of sound.  The speed of sound depends on the density of the air it passes through, and that is about 340 meters per second, 750 miles per hour at sea level.  It is slower at higher altitudes where the air is thin and faster through things like water... 4 times faster. It travels 15 times faster in iron. So the speed of sound depends (partly) on the density of the medium - the stuff through which it passes, not how loud you yell.

_URL_0_

Question: Why do most big birds fly away when they see a human but small birds don't really care?
Answer: Big birds are, ironically, in more danger.  The bigger the bird, the longer it takes them to get airborn, and the more likely they are to be on the menu.  Small animals generally aren't worth the trouble to catch, especially because they're light and fast.  The little birds aren't afraid of you because they know they're not worth your time to catch, and anyway you're too slow to catch them anyway.  Larger birds know that they would make a decent meal and if you got close enough you might be fast enough to grab one.

Question: - movies getting awards before they even play in theatres
Answer: Critics get to see review showings of movies before they're released to general audiences in the theaters.

Question: as a non american - santa's race? what's up with that?
Answer: First, actual St. Nick was Anatolian, and was, apparently, most likely a [dark-skinned "Greek"](_URL_1_).  

Now, for the recent news.  An African-American reporter wrote [an article](_URL_0_), talking about how, as a child, it was tough to reconcile "white" Santa with her black father dressing up as Santa, and how as the U.S. gets less and less homogeneously white, we might want to make Santa more accessible to all the kids.  Her not quite serious suggestion was that he should be a penguin, rather than a person of any color, though in the beginning of the article, she suggests that maybe a better thing to do would be to just say that one of Santa's magic powers, beyond the flying reindeer, is that he can look like any race. You already know about the Fox news thing that followed. 

I don't think "black people" as a group, or "white people" are upset about this.  It got a lot of news coverage because it's kind of a silly story that was easy to joke about, and let people talk about things they wanted to talk about anyway (republicans are racist; Liberals are too sensitive; fox news is evil; democrats don't understand reality; blah blah, blah).  I will leave it to you whether you think the original author's point is reasonable or not, but that's the status of the question in the U.S.

Question: What causes the "fingernails on a blackboard" sensation? Why does it feel so horrible?
Answer: The amygdala is to blame for the cringe. The amygdala associates emotions to memories and stores them in long term memory (hippocampus). 

There's two theories, one evolutionary, and one physiological. 
Evolutionary Theory: The sound resembles a cry of alarm at some point in the evolutionary lane.
Physiological Theory: Due to the shape of the ear canal, and the frequency of the sound-wave, it causes the frequency to resonate within the human ear canal, causing it to vibrate violently.

Both cause a rise in activity of the amygdala, leaving some to suggest that it's recognized as a form of distress signal. 

On a related note: It has been suggested that the physiological theory possibly correlates to a dog's reaction with high-pitched 'dog' whistles.

Question: How does the WiFi in the new Chevy cars work? I mean they have to be using a wireless network right?
Answer: The car has a computer that connects to the cellular data network.  This computer then acts as a router and shares the connection out over wifi.  The wifi is locked down so only people you want to connect can connect.

Question: The gaming journalism fiasco known as #gamergate?
Answer: Zoe Quinn is a indie game developer. A ex-boyfriend of said developer (because he cannot possibly have any ulterior motives) says some shit about her sleeping around to get good ratings.
Many call Zoe Quinn a whore, slut, skank and justify there action under some high ideal about the corruption of game journalism.

First, the source of the accusation was a ex, which very likely means that the accusation is worthless. 
Second, using Zoe Quinn as an example for the corruption in game journalism is like singling out a minor league player, and placing all the problems of the major leagues on there shoulders.

EDIT: readability

Question: Why does lightning often occur in 'double strikes'?
Answer: Lightning first comes down in a flurry of haphazard lines trying to find the path of least resistance to the ground. This is called the lead.
When the lead finds the path to the ground, you can see a very quick flash move up the lead into the cloud. This return stoke is the full strength of the lightning strike transferring power to the ground, like traffic moving forward at a fresh green light.
Once that return stroke makes its trip up the lead, the cloud gives it more energy, making the second flash you see

Question: Aside from illuminati (?). Why is there an all seeing eye, pyramid, and 'new world order' on US currency?
Answer: The "New World Order" was supposed to represent the rise of the United States as a global power.

Question: Why do some commercials play for a split second and then get skipped? Wouldn't the advertiser get upset?
Answer: Those flashes of commercials occur in situations where your local station is showing different commercials than the national broadcast that they're receiving.  Sometimes the timing gets off, and you get a small snippet of the national broadcast commercial before your station overrides it with their local feed.

And no, the advertiser doesn't get upset, because you were never supposed to see their commercial in the first place.  Often, it'll be for something like a chain store that doesn't even exist in your area.

Question: How do freckles form?
Answer: It's a mixture of genes and exposure to sunlight. For instance. you can normally not have freckles and get them when you go outside, or you can have freckles regardless of whether or not you go outside. Basically (for sun exposure) what happens is the sun gives off a certain kind of light (UV-B). Your skin cells get this light and they start ramping up production of melatonin (which is basically skin coloring). This increased concentration of melatonin shows up on your skin - as freckles.

Question: Why does it take a human being almost a year to learn how to walk, when most animals can learn to walk in a matter of hours/days?
Answer: Human babies are born really early in our development cycle and are pretty useless because of it. This is because our hips need to be narrow to allow for bipedal motion, and our heads are proportionally large to house our big brains. This means that humans evolved to give birth earlier to underdeveloped babies so the it doesnt kill the mother while still being intelligent and bipedal.

Question: Why are all drugs "bad"? Why can't there be a drug that gives intense pleasure/euphoria (heroine, coke etc) but has 0 adverse effects?
Answer: Drugs create highs by manipulating chemicals our bodies produce normally. Frequent drug use can change the way our bodies produce and utilize these chemicals, causing our bodies to produce too much or too little. There is no perfect drug because any substance usage takes our bodies out of chemical equilibrium, causing adverse effects.

Edit: Wow! This blew up. Thanks for all the compliments and insightful responses, I know this is an oversimplification and you guys really helped flesh out my answer. Thanks for the gold!

Question: why does looking at the sun hurt your eyes but indirectly not so much?
Answer: Ask your best friend to place their mouth directly in front of your right ear hole and say your name loudly. Then, ask them to place their mouth at your left ear and do the same thing--only this time, instead of having their mouth facing directly at your ear hole, have their mouth face the tip of your nose. 

Which one "hurt" more? 

The first one, of course. The reason is simple: the pupil of your eye acts exactly like the hole in your ear. It is the tunnel through which the signal (in your ear's case, sound; in your eye's case, light) travels and stimulates your brain. 

By staring at the sun directly, you are overwhelming your receptors with signal because light is streaming in directly through your pupil--in the same way that your friend's voice felt like it rammed into your right ear. When the light is indirect, you're getting a "sense" of the signal without overwhelming your sensory receptors. Or, in the case of your ear, you're hearing the sound without feeling like someone jammed a Q-tip into it.

Question: With pets like dogs and cats, why can't their lifespan get longer with modern medicine and diet like us?
Answer: They have. When you consider 9 years - >  14 that's a massive increase in life expectancy. Do you expect humans to be able to double their life expectancy? Of course not, however a 20-30% increase over a few hundred years to maximize our potential? Reasonable - and this is what we've seen with pets.

Question: Does Queen Elizabeth have any power in regards to affecting any Canadian laws?
Answer: The UK government? No. The Queen? Yes, she's the Queen of Canada and her royal assent is required for any bill to pass into law and the government of Canada including the Prime-Minister serve at her pleasure.

Her appointed representative to which she 'chooses' to defer in all matters is the Governor General of Canada. The GG 'chooses' to be more of a figurehead that rubber-stamps what is required of him or her.

This 'choosing' comes from the fact that there's an established tradition nobody would put up with being broken; the GG and the soverign hold little in the way of real power.

Question: Medical vs. Dental: Why is there a difference? If your teeth are part of the human body why is dentistry kept completely separate -- even requiring separate insurance?
Answer: First, remember that every field has tradition associated with it -- it's why we wear caps and gowns when we get degrees -- tradition.

Back in the day, dentistry wasn't a medical profession. Dentists weren't doctors with degrees who went to school for 6 years and then apprenticed for another 6. Dentists were your local barber or blacksmith. Basically anyone who had the tools to pull a tooth from your head.

Because of that 'tradition', dentistry is a completely separate medical profession from everything else. A dentist is a D.D.S -- a medical doctor (cardiologist, dermatologist, endocrinologist, GP) is an M.D.

All of that carries over to insurance.


Edit: Didn't think this would go anywhere. Sorry for those who don't like the history of the profession and why things are the way they are. It's pretty much impossible to wipe that sort of stuff away, especially in such a short period of time. 'Dental insurance' is a pretty recent thing (less than 50 years). There are plenty of "stupid" traditions we follow that are *way* older than that.

Question: Why the Dalai Lama was exiled?
Answer: >  [China] considers all pro-independence movements aimed at ending Chinese sovereignty in Tibet (including British attempts to establish control in the late 19th century and early 20th century, the CIA's backing of Tibetan insurgents during the 1950s and 1960s, and the Government of Tibet in Exile today) as one long campaign abetted by Western imperialism aimed at destroying Chinese territorial integrity and sovereignty, or destabilizing China.

- _URL_0_

Basically, China sees him as a threat to their rule over Tibet. They think his presence in Tibet will stir shit up. China doesn't want to have to deal with another armed rebellion in Tibet like the one that happened in 1959:

 >  Chinese authorities have interpreted the [Tibetan] uprising [of 1959] as a revolt of the Tibetan elite against Communist reforms that were improving the lot of Tibetan serfs. Tibetan and third party sources, on the other hand, have usually interpreted it as a popular uprising against the alien Chinese presence. Historian Tsering Shakya has argued that it was a popular revolt against both the Chinese and the Lhasa government, which was perceived as failing to protect the authority and safety of the Dalai Lama from the Chinese.

- _URL_1_

And that's why the Chinese won't let him back into Tibet.

Question: I dont know if this was asked already but could someone please explain the Bridgegate scandal and the big deal Chris Christie?
Answer: I'm going to use the word "allege" because the investigation is ongoing.

There is a town on the New Jersey side of the George Washington bridge called Fort Lee.  

It is alleged that because the mayor of Fort Lee did not endorse Chris Christie in his campaign last year, Christie's staff arranged a fabricated "traffic study" that closed lanes on the bridge on the Fort Lee side, causing people to be stuck at the bridge for many hours.

There's a bit more to it, but I think that's a ELI5 description that covers 90% of it.

Question: How does Palmer Lucky and the people who started Oculus make money after the acquisition from Facebook? Do they get a part of the profit of the rift? Do they get a salary?
Answer: The terms of their sale are probably confidential, however I'm certain they get to keep most of the money they made from FB (since they were privately owned and funded). I suspect they'll get paid in a combination of cash and FB stock, and they'll probably get a salary in more FB stock.

Question: Why is it that over the past decade or so, processor clock speeds havent gotten substantially faster, like 10ghz or anything. Still see mostly, 2ghz to 3.5ghz. We jam in more cores, but speeds seem to be more or less the same?
Answer: The faster the clock-rate, the more heat the processor generates and the harder it becomes to cool. Once you reach around 4-5 Ghz, it's just very inefficient and requires expensive heat-sinks and cooling fans to keep the core temperature down to a reasonable level that won't damage the computer hardware.

The obvious solution presented itself to engineers - instead of creating a single-core processor with really high clock-rates, instead create multi-core processors with much lower clock-rates that can effectively perform the same (or a higher) number of calculations per second than the single-core processors, and it can do this with lower heat generation and greater efficiency.

So that's where we are today. More cores (sometimes even 8 or higher), lower/same clock rates, lower/same heat generation, and greater efficiency.

Just to be clear, desktops today have far surpassed the processing speeds of 2005. All processors on the market today are multi-core (at least two cores, but often four or more cores). Each one of these cores is clocked at the specified rate (e.g. 2 Ghz) and is capable of performing a similar number of calculations per second as a traditional single-core processor clocked at the same rate. 

So although a quad-core processor with a 2 Ghz processor (for example) is not the same as an 8 Ghz single-core processor, the 2 Ghz quad-core processor is capable of performing a similar number of operations per second as an 8 Ghz single-core processor, and the 2 Ghz quad-core will be objectively better at multi-tasking operations and provide performance enhancements for applications that are designed to take advantage of multi-core processing technology.

Question: Where does my local dealer get controlled narcotics like Xanax and Codeine?
Answer: I am sure he is not buying them by the case.

He is getting them from people who get fraudulent scripts from shady doctors, who then get the drugs from a shady pharmacy, and sell the drugs to him.

What's more, oftentimes these folks are on medicaid, so they get the drugs free, and sell them to the dealer at pennies on the dollar vs what you would have to actually pay the pharmacy for them. 

That is why up in Harlem, you can buy xanax from a dealer for about 1/2 of pharmacy price, and the dealer is still making a huge profit. 

in the 90's i had no insurance, and my wife had a xanax script. We filled it once, kept the bottle, and from then on just bought xanax on the street and kept them in the prescription bottle in case we ever got frisked. Street prices were a life saver.

Question: Why is it that restarting a computer fixes the problem most of the time?
Answer: A lot of problems are caused by errors with things stored in RAM. Restarting a computer wipes your RAM, and reloads all needed files from the hard drive.

Question: What makes a person laugh?
Answer: There is no one answer.  But a common theme is that it is a release,  that comes from a sudden build up of energy.

A few things can trigger it.  

A sudden shift in status.  aka A person falling down, Or the queen farting.

Or a good joke is generally when two separate ideas  collide together quickly.  Like...

Wife: Honey did you miss me?
Husband: With every bullet I have.

Another example is when you hear something that is so "true" it makes you laugh.  That is because when you hear something that really resonates with you, and you have super fast mini aha moment, if it's fast enough, the release of energy, will bubble up as laughter.

Question: Who decides what country is allowed to do what on the moon/other planets, or is there one institution always having the final word in these decisions?
Answer: This is determined by the [Outer Space Treaty](_URL_0_), which was signed in 1967. In short, this treaty (signed by 107 countries currently) says that nobody will put nuclear weapons in orbit/space, and that nobody can claim moons/planets/etc for their own country. Space politics aren't explicitly policed by any one institution or country, but rather by mutual agreement to not be dicks in space.

Funny enough it doesn't say you can't have any weapons in space, just not weapons of mass destruction. I'm sure there's guidelines on space warfare in there, but there's nothing exactly stopping a country from putting X-Wings in orbit.

Question: Why is everything spinning?
Answer: Electrons don't orbit nucleus. That's a simplified version of the atom taught in elementary (secondary?) school. (On a slightly unrelated note, electrons do have a property called 'spin', but that is just a name for it, and they aren't usually seen as spinning)

As for why do larger structure spin. When things like galaxies are forming, there are areas with more 'stuff' so things around them get pulled towards it. Since there isn't just one 'lump', different parts of the galaxy will be pulled in different directions. It is unlikely for the momentum of this to cancel out to be exactly 0, so the galaxy picks up a spin.

Question: How do scholars "resurrect" lost languages based on only unreadable writing?
Answer: In the case of the Rosetta stone, there were translations of the same text in 3 different languages. Scholars were able to use that to determine words if they are used multiple times. For example, if you have three sentences about bread, you can guess that one of the common words is bread.

Question: Why are burn marks more distinct than regular scars and what is the difference?
Answer: This - _URL_0_ - is my 3rd degree burn. If I don't stretch it, the colour is pretty normal. I got it in Feb 2012 and it's taken until now to be back to a normal colour and not red. A lot of burns appear to affect a larger surface area, hence more scar tissue is formed to heal the wound.

Question: How does a dog know to breed with dogs and not with another species?
Answer: They don't...  Have you ever seen a dog hump a couch, or someone's leg?

Question: Why aren't electrical prongs hot when they're removed from an outlet?
Answer: Heating occurs when there's a significant amount of resistance.

Significant resistance can occur if the material you're using is a poor conductor, or if you're using a conductor that's physically too small.

In the case of the prongs of a plug, they're both made of metal (good conductor) and fairly large in size. Therefore, there's no major resistance, and they don't heat up noticably.

Question: How do you restore old black and white photos to color?
Answer: It's not easy, and it takes a lot of skill and dedication and requires specialised software. Yes, Photoshop counts as specialised software (:

Extreme simplification: what you do is add layers to the b & w image, paint regions of the photo the colour you want them to be (for example, paint the eyes blue) and then blend the layer to the base image until you get the desired result. 

I think this is a question best answered with a video, and youtube has [many many tutorials](_URL_0_) on the subject. 

UPDATE: After watching some of those tutorials I decided to try it myself. I'll amend my comment to "It takes a lot of skill and dedication to do it well, but you can get fairly decent results by half-assing it". So thanks for asking this, it made me go learn a new skill (:

Question: Why do children seem to be better at learning second languages than adults?
Answer: There is an area in the brain that is responsible for language processing. It is largely responsible for learning new languages when a person is still young, but becomes "set" after a certain age. 

After that, we can still learn languages, but the part of the brain that most receptive to that is no longer as efficient.

Question: How does a clone differ from an identical twin?
Answer: Genetically, they don't.  In practice, a twin is a birth defect that causes one fertilized egg to grow into two people, and a clone would be a person grown from an already-born person's DNA, probably not taken from their reproductive organs.

Question: why are adobe products so expensive?
Answer: There are many reasons why:

Adobe's softwares are the results of a long time of research and programing, they are to say the least, products of great quality and gives other businesses tools to create their activity and make profit for themselves. 


Adobe's consumers are mainly businesses and they can afford a larger cost than individual people, the price is chosen in order to make adobe's products professional more than personal, the bigger your business is the most expensive it gets. 


Adobe changed how they priced: before you bought photoshop for example but now you monthly subscribe and you get many of adobe's products with photoshop, like premiere, after effects, indesign, illustrator, etc... And adobe's cloud capabilities. 


Adobe also gained a reputation, because their products are well known and give a certain level of quality, Adobe can easily rise their prices without risking a huge fall of their clients.

Question: How do we know how many troops ISIS (or other organizations) have?
Answer: It's like when you ask a guy how many sexual partners he's had- you divide by 3. 

So when ISIS says they have 60,000 troops it's actually closer to 20,000. 

Much different then when you ask a woman how many sexual partners she's had- in those cases you MULTIPLY by 3.

Question: If everyone has a different set of tastebuds and we all have different levels of satisfaction/dissatisfaction towards different foods, then how do food critics have a job?  Wouldn't their opinion be worthless?
Answer: this question could be applied to all forms of critics.......music, movies, tv

but trying to answer the question, I'd say think about like the Iron Chef judges, their critique is usually about tenderness, texture, freshness of ingredients, presentation, etc.  Stuff that transcends just taste.  They are food "experts" so they can take a step back and recognize a quality dish without it being their personal favorite.

also have never read one of these articles

Question: How does one hack Gmail and Facebook accounts and how should one protect them to have maximum security?
Answer: Typically, it involves guessing the password. Or, if you've re-used the password on a site that isn't as good at security as Google or Facebook, some other site gets hacked and they try the same username/password combination elsewhere.

There are two things you can do to really protect yourself. First of all, use a strong, unique password, especially for sites that give access to important things, like your email or bank passwords (your password for some random forum probably doesn't need to be that strong if you aren't re-using it). Second, enable two-factor authorization. Two-factor authorization requires something you know (your password) and something you have (either a security key or your phone usually). For example, when I log into my Google account on a computer I've never used before, Google prompts me to enter a passcode that's generated by an app on my phone that changes every 30 seconds. Even if someone guesses my password, they can't get into my account without my phone.

Question: why do British people sound British while talking, but sound like they are from America when singing?
Answer: When people sing, they tend to enunciate more clearly. This could explain why British people sound more understandable to you when singing. However, there are many British singers who DO use their typical enunciation when singing, and their accent is more identifiable. Take for example the music of Lily Allen, The Clash, Frank Turner, and many other popular musicians. Also, many British rock bands tend to imitate the singing style of their favorite acts, who are often American.

As for Americans sounding sing-songy to Brits... I doubt it.

Question: Why do all TV channels have the same commercial breaks?
Answer: I assume it's so the watcher is more likely to return to their channel if the other channels are on commercial breaks as well.

Question: Why was cannabis ever made illegal in the first place?
Answer: There are lots and lots of urban legends and rumors surrounding this impetus of the 1937 Marihuana Tax Act, including pressure from pharmaceutical companies and the paper industry. Although these industries benefited from the act, there's no real evidence that these were the primary factors.

In reality, the association of pot with a particular ethnic group was to blame. In the case of pot, the drug was associated with Mexican immigrants, notoriously conveyed in the fact that marijuana, with the silent 'j', became prominent around this time in an effort to associate the drug with the Spanish language, when previously it was often spelled 'marihuana'.

Read some very interesting information [here](_URL_0_).

Question: How do weather sites predict weather 30+ days out?
Answer: They don't. Most only do five, some do ten, and ones that have 30+ just run on averages for those days from past years, factoring in any anomalies, like _URL_0_ does. Even the ten day forecasts are quite inaccurate most of the time if you actually pay attention and compare forecast to actual.

Question: Why is it more difficult to run for long periods of time when exercises like biking are just as strenuous?
Answer: It's all about practice. You use different muscle groups for different kinds of exercise. 

Running is *really* hard on your body. You're obviously using your leg muscles, but you're using a whole bunch of other muscles that you may not be aware of. Abs, arms, back, neck, they all play into it with running. 

Bicycling, you're sitting down, for one. You can also stop peddling for a bit. And you have different gears. Not to diminish from cycling, but it's not really as strenuous as running.

Question: Why does Saturn's ring look so perfectly flat and circular?
Answer: From a distance, Saturns rings seem very flat, and thin, and mainly three rings, although some shading gradient is seen.

Up close, the rings are lumpy, icy bits and pieces, with a multitude of rings, and ~~two~~ **five** shepherd moons that orbit about them.  These moons actually help keep the rings in line, and two of them also produce the two bands between the three 'main' ring systems.

All this keeps the material orbiting Saturn, the shepherd moons, and the free fall of all the little bits.  However, the rings are destined over many millenia to be eaten as they're falling slowly into the planet.  One day in the future, Saturn will be ringless.

Edit: I updated the middle a little bit, 'cause I had the number of moons wrong that are herdin' the rings.  Sorry 'bout that.

Question: Most everyone is aware of the alleged Saudi collusion regarding terrorism on the west; particularly on the USA. Though is there any actual irrefutable evidence behind this conspiracy?
Answer: Well, if you use a standard like "irrefutable", probably not, at least not in any unclassified documents. But high-level Western officials have basically acknowledged it happens, and would not make such politically risky statements if they weren't confident.

[In 2010, Secretary of State Hilary Clinton stated that it was an “ongoing challenge to persuade Saudi officials to treat terrorist funds emanating from Saudi Arabia as a strategic concern.” The US government has also been highly critical of Saudi’s refusal to ban ‘charitable’ organizations that have continued to funnel money to known terrorist organizations. ](_URL_2_)

And even when they're not funding terrorist groups directly, they're funding "education" in Wahhabism, which is basically the ideological foundation of the Sunni terror groups.

[Exact numbers are not known, but it is thought that more than $100 billion have been spent on exporting fanatical Wahhabism to various much poorer Muslim nations worldwide over the past three decades.](_URL_1_)

[Various Saudi government publications gathered for this study, most of which are in Arabic, assert that it is a religious obligation for Muslims to hate Christians and Jews and warn against imitating, befriending, or helping them in any way, or taking part in their festivities and celebrations](_URL_0_)

Question: Why does this picture of Mercury appear to wobble whilst I'm eating something and staring at it?
Answer: I have no idea what y'all are talking about. It doesn't wobble for me. I've tried eating something, shaking my phone, doing the thing with your jaw and bringing your teeth together, but I still got nothing.

Question: What makes American cheese so much different than other types of cheese?
Answer: A processed cheese is made from cheese with emulsifiers, vegetable oils, salt, flavorings or colors added to it.

This makes a cheese that is incredibly cheap to produce, has a longer shelf life, and melts much more evenly (which is good for things like grilled cheeses and cheeseburgers) but usually tastes worse.

Question: How can Facebook use face recognition software to correctly name thousands of my friends, yet not one hacker can create a bot to decipher a captcha that has a mix of only 26 letters in it?
Answer: Not many photographs on Facebook are deliberately distorted and obfuscated to make the face just barely recognizable by a human, but that's what's done to the text in captchas.

Question: Trying to generate a balanced opinion on chicken factory farming. Are chickens intelligent enough to experience displeasure at how they are farmed? I.e. Do they experience any pain/unhappiness or are they too simple minded for these and "enjoy" convenient feeding followed by a swift death?
Answer: I had chickens growing up and now have a backyard flock for eggs and occasional eating. I try not to eat factory farmed chicken.

While they are just about the stupidest warm blooded creature on the planet - they can feel pain, fear and certainly react to stressful situations.

I kill and eat all kinds of animals - I'm not squeamish about the reality of the food pyramid - but there's no reason to torture what you're about to eat in order to keep prices down. It's really just wrong. It's bad for the animals, it's bad for the environment and in the end it's bad for our health.

My backyard chickens are "happy". They come running when I go outside, they get exercise, tasty food and seem to enjoy life as much as they can. Are they smart? Hell no, they're really really stupid. Do they deserve a good life? Yes.

Question: How can a small country with bad missiles be confident of fighting big countries if it doesn't have people who knows how to occupy and all that it has is its scary missiles?
Answer: The same way players with bad hands at poker battle against Big hands. By bluffing.

The problem is that in this game of poker, N.Korea already showed the cards. So bluffing + lying + courage.

Also it's not "a small country" it's more like a small person named Kim Jong-Un. 99% of the population there think that N. Korea is a World Power, they are just tricked

Question: Why is the term "Caucasian" applied to all white people, regardless of whether they came from the Caucasus region?
Answer: In the early 1900s it was believed that white people originated in the Caucasus mountains.  At the time, the three "scientific" classifications were Caucasoid, Negroid, and Mongoloid.  (Some people still use mongoloid or "mongo" as an insult to this day.)

There's no real scientific basis to this, and no way to draw a dividing line.  If you were to divide races scientifically by amount of genetic variation, you'd find it looked something more like this:

* non-Bantu sub-Saharan people like the Bushmen and the Mbuti (four or five races)
* everybody else

Which shouldn't be surprising, since the non-Africans descended from a few waves of migrants who only carried a small amount of humanity's total genetic variation.

(edit: a word.)

Question: How can a flight be overbooked?
Answer: Some airlines will overbook (sell more tickets than seats available) a flight in the off chance that people do not arrive for the flight.  That way, it ensures a fuller flight, even when not all the purchasers are there.

Question: Why do people in the moves and television in the 1940s-1960s have a nasally voice?
Answer: It's called [Mid-Atlantic English.](_URL_0_) It's what happens when rich Americans try and sound like rich English people. 

There were some people who talked like this in real life, particularly super rich people in Boston/Connecticut/parts of Long Island in the early 20th century (when it's real life people, it's also known as "Connecticut lockjaw" or "Larchmont lockjaw.") [Katherine Hepburn](_URL_1_) and [George Plimpton](_URL_3_) are good examples of people who really did talk like that all the time, it was their natural accent. 

But the reason it's all over movies and stuff from that time is that back then it was considered very important for an actor to try and lose any trace of regional or ethnic identity and learn to talk "proper," e.g., like rich people. Almost every actor with an Italian or Irish or Jewish last name would change it into something more WASPy and American-sounding ([example](_URL_4_)). The default "rich person" way of talking was the Mid Atlantic accent, so people would artificially adopt it. 

It fell out of fashion, though, mostly in the 1960s, as people got more proud of their own origins and wanted to stick up for them and not be forced to lose their identity to fit in. When that started to happen, instead of the accent seeming like how everyone should try and sound it started to seem fake and unnatural, a joke. By 1963 you have like the dude on Gilligan's Island, [Thurston Howell III](_URL_2_), where him talking like that is part of what makes him ridiculous.

Question: Why is it bad if I quit without cause, but employers have the right to fire me without cause?
Answer: It looks bad to future employers. From their view, why would they want to hire someone who has a history of simply walking out without giving them time to find a replacement. Also, if you ever decide to go back to the job you quit without notice, they are going to think the same thing and probably won't rehire you. Keep in mind that when a new employer is checking your references and they call your previous employer, the one question they are almost guaranteed to ask them is if they would hire you again. If the answer is no then it is a big red flag and they probably wont hire you either. Always a good idea to avoid burning bridges if you can.

Question: Why is the male scrotum always so itchy?
Answer: The sperm trying to escape cause this.  Female scrotums have no sperms therefore no itch.

Question: How people program "Angry Birds"-like physics and collision detection.
Answer: I'm going to make some mock-code here. This is not real code, this is just so you can understand basically what's happening.

object Bird

{

    centerX = 50
    centerY = 50
    width = 20
    height = 20

}

building.frontEdge = 100 (X coordinate)


while (inAir)

{

centerX = centerX + (whatever physics calculations here)

centerY = centerY + (same. Calculations to move the object in an arc)

bird.frontEdge = center + (width / 2)

if (bird.frontEdge  > = building.frontEgde) (If the front edge of the bird is greater than or equal to the front edge of the building on an x-coordinate graph)

{

    do whatever for a collision

}

In reality, it's much more complicated, as the objects aren't prefect squares, and the physics calculations are more defined, but that's basically what happens. The bird is kept track of, where its shape is defined as different coordinates. If any of the coordinates are the same as the coordinates of the object it's supposed to hit, then a collision has happened.

Question: What is the purpose of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act?
Answer: It addresses two issues.

First, it's a "good neighbor" policy.  It's hard to fight graft and corruption when the funding for the graft and corruption is coming from another country.  The US wants to be able to say "not our fault" when other countries bitch about how they can't control graft and corruption.

Second, it avoids all sorts of loopholes.  Can't bribe someone in the US?  Bribe their brother in Uzbeckibeckibeckistan instead.  Not being able to bribe anyone anywhere means there's no loopholes.

Question: - Why does it seem like the same WiFi network that quickly loads virtually any website on a desktop or laptop struggles to load Google in even a dozen seconds on a smartphone?
Answer: I have an iPhone and have this problem too, sometimes, my phone won't search using the url/search bar (as Google is the default search engine) or load _URL_0_. I don't know why this happens, but the only way I can get it to work again is to go on Bing or Yahoo and search for Google and click on it, after this, everything turns back to normal.

Question: Why do we love members of our family that aren't our parents?
Answer: Because, evolutionarily speaking, they share a good bit of your genetic material. Furthermore, we're a social species. We basically lived in extended family groups for a lot of our history.

Question: What is the use of a birth certificate?
Answer: It proves you were born here and are a citizen.   Without one, and without a record of one, they could try and deport you as an illegal immigrant. 

It also, you know, proves your age. For age-related things like getting into public school and getting a drivers license.

Question: What exactly makes a 3-in-1 bodywash/shampoo/conditioner different from its individual counterparts (or even the 2-in-1 shampoo/conditioner)?
Answer: The fact that it only works as one of those at best. Usually it’s just body wash with maybe some additives and fancy marketing.

If you want to treat your skin and hair well, use three separate products that actually do their job. Every persons skin and hair is different and the idea of a one-fits-all and all-in-one product is ridiculous.

Especially the shampoo-conditioner combo is nonsense since those two products literally do opposite things. Shampoo cleans your hair from the oils that accumulate on it and conditioner puts some amount of oil and moisture back on it.

Question: Bell Curves
Answer: If you have a sufficiently large sample of people taking a test, statistically they should begin to follow a bell curve. The mean value (average) will be at one point, and if graphed, the values of all the other tests should fan out from there in a roughly bell-shaped curve on either side of the mean.

Some professors grade 'on a curve'. This basically means that they assume the test will follow a standard bell curve. Essentially, grading on a curve means the professor will adjust results such that the class results follow a bell curve, even if they don't.

Question: why t-shirt companies place their tags that rip a hole in the t-shirt if you take it out and cause discomfort if you dont?
Answer: 1) So you can't remove the branding for the company  

2) it's just how tags are for some people, they don't bother me, but they do some

Question: how does a ship with sails travel in a direction that opposes the wind, or the current of the water?
Answer: The keel (thing that sticks on the bottom of the boat) pushes against the water 90 degrees from the tipping axel of the boat kinda counteracting the force of the wind against the sail. Imagine this at around 130 or so degrees apart, the net force overall pushes the boat in the forwards direction. 

_URL_0_

More in depth explication.

Question: How do GPS satellites work and how does relativity effect them?
Answer: Each GPS satellite transmits a signal that includes pseudorandom code and the state vector of the satellite.  The same signal is generated by the GPS receiver.  When the two signals are compared, the one from the satellite will be found to lag behind the one of the receiver because of the time it took for the signal to travel from the satellite to the receiver.


This will indicate that the receiver is somewhere on the sphere that surrounds the satellite and is of a radius equal to the travel distance of the signal.


Repeat this process with another satellite and we will have narrowed down the location to the doughnut formed by the intersection of the two spheres. Repeat with a third satellite and we will have narrowed the location of the receiver to two possible points.  Often one of these points will be illogical so the solution can be defined.  Sometimes a fourth satellite is needed.


As for relativity it's pretty boring: the satellites are built to run at 10.22999999543 MHz on the ground so that when they're in orbit under the influence of velocity time dilation (special relativity) and a slightly larger amount of negative gravitational time dilation (general relativity), they will run at 10.23 MHz.

Question: What would actually happen to your eyes if you stopped blinking completely?
Answer: Your eyes would dry out and crack, become infected, and eventually rot right out of your skull. If it didn't kill you then the open wound would eventually scar over.

Question: If we all have a voice inside our head, at what point does it become a sign of schizophrenia?
Answer: When the voice is not your voice. We all know our own inner voice. Imagine an uncontrollable foreign voice speaking in your head. That's schizophrenia.

Question: The concept of white privilege to someone like me who is not white
Answer: White privilege does not mean that ever single white person enjoys advantages over every single person of other ethnicities.

It's mostly referring to two things: 

* White neighborhoods are, in general, better off economically than minority communities - and tend to receive better education/police services.
* Racism is subtle, but real.  Little things like promotions at work, traffic stops, you name it - individually they're often in grey areas but in aggregate they show a clear preference towards whites.

Those sort of things are also somewhat regional.  Some regions of the US are fairly integrated and more beyond that stuff, some *way* less so.  A wealthy family immigrating into a well to do integrated neighborhood in SoCal or something probably won't see that, but that's not exactly the typical experience of immigrants from Latin America.

Question: Do words in tonal languages (Chinese, Thai, etc) lose their tones when sung?
Answer: For Chinese the answer is yes. Listeners infer the meaning of the words by their context, rather than their tone. I assume it is the same for other tonal languages. 

The same sort of tone-loss can happen when people simply speak really fast, too.

Question: What happens at the molecular level when a paper is cut by a scissor?
Answer: I'm not sure how to word this given the limitation of a molecular level explanation, but you could say that the scissor's force is strong enough such that the electrons of the scissors repel the electrons of the paper enough to form a cut.

Question: How are rock songs constructed?
Answer: >  How exactly does the guitar interact with the bass, rhythm and vocals.

Generally speaking, one instrument (most often the guitar) plays a lead melody, while all other instrumentation and vocals play harmonically-compatible parts which *support* that melody. On their own these supportive instruments do not play parts that could be considered distinct melodies, as they're designed to accent the lead melody. More complex rock music, and a great deal of music from other genres (such as classical or technical death metal), will feature instruments playing completely *separate* but harmonically-compatible melodies, each of which could stand on its own as a distinct melody.

If you require more information than that, I don't think your question is really ELI5 appropriate. You'll need to start learning music theory thoroughly, and from the ground-up. And [this](_URL_0_) is as good as any place to start.

Question: Creatures like hermit crabs and snails thay move from shell to shell through their lives
Answer: Snails don't change shells, they make their own.

Hermit crabs will find abandoned shells from other animals, shells of dead animals, or will often kill snails to take their shells.

Question: Why don't I notice myself falling asleep?
Answer: Your brain shuts down most functions while going into sleep mode. The function we're most interested in here is the long term memory. For example can you remember the dreams you had the last 7 days? How about last night? Probably not. You do however typically remember those dreams right as you wake up. 

It kind of works the same way. The part of your brain that store's memories gets shut down. Thus you are not able to recollect the act of falling asleep.

Question: Why are archers in movies instructed to fire all at once?
Answer: Well usually we see it in movies in the context of the first volley against a force moving towards the wall. In that case the commander can simply say 'on my mark' if they want the arrows to start only when the enemy forces are close enough to get a reasonable hit on with the arrows.

Also it's a lot more devastating to morale to have them all hit at once. The perception of a well-coordinated enemy is itself disheartening but also it means you're getting this rain of grievous injuries all hitting together so from the perspective on an enemy foot soldier there's just waves of death causing quite a few of the guys around him to start bleeding out all at once. Has a bigger sense of impact when you get all these injuries hitting together.

Question: how do we determine currency conversions?
Answer: This was asked before: _URL_0_

See if that post answers your question.

Question: why, after years of civil war, is NOW the tipping point where so many Syrians are fleeing to Europe?
Answer: They aren't fleeing, really. They're looking for a higher standard of living. If they were simply looking for shelter from war, they would not go to Germany. [Look at this map.](_URL_0_) There are perhaps near a dozen countries, all of which are not at war, between Syria and Germany. Most go through Hungary, which is not as welcoming. However, the EU says they have to be registered in the country that they first arrive in. They don't stay in Hungary, they are going through Austria to Germany. That makes them immigrants, not refugees. Aside from the viral photos of dead children, which someone took the time to, instead of burying the child, take a high resolution photo, there are thousands of videos of them rioting on the streets and being generally cunts. A video was uploaded to youtube the other day of Syrian "refugees" throwing rocks at train station workers as they ran for Germany.

They are doing this because Germany is advertising it. They, as well as Sweden, are literally putting up billboards advertising their countries. Norway and Denmark on the other hand are literally advertising for them to go away. they don't listen to Norway or Denmark. Why would they, when they can get free housing, food, shelter, and schooling at the cost of tax paying Germans and Swedes?

Question: Internet Service Providers.
Answer: The internet isn't "one thing", it's actually a number of computer networks that has decided to work together. Each ISP runs their own part of the internet.

So if I send this message from Sweden to the reddit servers in the US it first goes to my local ISP but they only deal with local stuff so they hand it over to a large nordic telecommunications company that has a network that reaches as far as Denmark. 

But the large telecommunications company doesn't have a transatlantic telecommunications cable so in my case they hand the message over to [Level 3 Communications](_URL_0_). 

And after a few steps more it finally arrives to reddits servers and you can ask them to give it to you. So the internet is kind of an patchwork but so nicely done that you only see one thing.

Question: Why is it not long after you wake up, it's very difficult to remember the more interesting dreams you had?
Answer: Memories created in dreams almost immediately gets mixed up. They are created when the part of your brain that handles common logic isn't operating. The moment you wake up and that part of your brain starts to work on all of last night's memories to make sense of it all. The thing is  how do you know that what you think you dreamt isn't just your brain making up what it wants to think based on a random set of nonsense.

Question: Why did the concept of evil witches get introduced only since the middle ages and why did so many people suddenly believe they exist?
Answer: The belief in witches have always been found in cultures predating the middle ages. However to understand this sudden rise in burnings at the stake for witchcraft you need to understand the atmosphere of the time. During the middle ages much of the technological knowledge of the Roman/Greek era was lost to the European world (While it was preserved by many Arab nations). Intellectual thinking during this time was looked down upon by the church who had an immense increase of power from the collapse of the Roman Empire. In the power vacuum that ensued the future popes found a means of not only making themselves a religious head but a political one too. The persecution of intellectual thought by the church also left a vacuum gap which was filled by religion and thick superstition. Who do you blame when a disease kills your livestock or perhaps your crops? Who is causing the "unnatural dry season"? Why was this mysterious plague killing half of the population? When you put yourself into the mind of an uneducated individual of medieval Europe with strong christian(which contains pagan elements) beliefs its not hard see how this idea that witches were responsible for people's blights. Without science to give logical explanations the only ones that prevailed were those based in superstition. 

TLDR - With lack of education and knowledge many people relied on their superstitious nature to explain plagues and terrible events at a time when religion(containing many superstitious aspects) was at its highest power. They wanted to point fingers and scapegoating an individual for being a servant of the devil made sense to them.

Question: Used car pricing.
Answer: 1. people highball their car because potential buyers will haggle down the price. that is a near guarantee, so they list the car higher. 

2. people wildly overestimate the value of their car. it might have 200k+ miles and there might be a crack in the manifold... but it drives like a dream!

3. dealerships generally price used cars higher

4. people don't understand used car pricing. not just #2, they might have had work done on the car recently or there are aftermarket parts that they are including in the price of the car when in reality none of that matters.

Question: why do girls or guys put naked pictures of themselves on the internet ?
Answer: 1. Attention/validation/excitement;
2. It's just a normal picture to them and the fact they are naked isn't an issue for them;
3. They were paid at some point, but has been distributed by others freely;
4. It was never meant for public dissemination but some asshole decided to put it out there;

Question: What is quantitive easing?
Answer: One of the jobs of the Federal Reserve it to help set monetary policy for the United States.  One of the main ways it does this is by setting the Federal Fund Rate.  This is an interest rate that banks pay each other for interbank loans, but more importantly, almost all other interests rates (home loans, credit cards, etc) , directly or indirectly, are related to this rate.  The lower the interest rates, the easier it is to get a loan, which makes expansion (personal or business) easier, which generally increases growth.  When the economy is going along good, the Fed raises interest rates, which slows things down a bit, and when it's going poorly it drops interest rates to give things a boost.  What it's attempting to do is avoid boom/bust cycles (which obviously it can't eliminate given we are still recovering from a giant economic bubble bursting), and provide steady continuous long term growth.  In the wake of the housing bubble collapse, the Fed dropped interest rates from around 5.25% to it's current rate of 0.1%.  That's literally almost nothing, and it means that the Fed can't continue to use decreases in interest rates to spurn on the economy.  Given that the unemployment rate is still very high, and in general the economy is on unstable ground, this is a bit scary.  Basically the main nob that the Fed uses to push the economy into action got dialed to 11, and that's still not working.

That led the Fed to adopt an additional policy called Quantitative Easing (QE).  Basically the central bank purchases very large amounts of public bonds.  Bonds are traditionally a safe place to store you money, with low by reliable returns on investment.  By buying up large amounts of these bonds, they are denying people and companies from being able to have access to that safe place.  If you don't invest in anything (just keep a pile of cash sitting around) then the value decreases over time because of inflation.  So basically the Fed is forcing people to invest in some other project (like expanding business ventures) if they want a decent return on their investment.  This, coupled with historically low loan rates, means it's very good time to invest in those sorts of projects, which should increase their frequency, which should give the economy a kick in the pants.

Question: How Does Stephen Hawking's Chair Work?
Answer: Hawking suffers from motor neuron disease, and over time, he's become more and more paralysed.  Early on in the disease's progression, his students were able to understand him (with some effort), but as his disease progressed he's needed other solutions. In the mid-80's he had a tracheotomy, and lost his ability to talk verbally completely, which is when he switched to using a device with a single button that allowed him to spell our words.  Some of the first text-to-speech software was installed on his chair, and because that voice has become tied to him, he's left it even though it sounds quite robotic and there's better sounding solutions these days.

His disease has progressed to the point where he can no use his hand to control the button, and now uses a system that operates off his cheek muscles.

_URL_0_

Question: Why is it that when you drink cranberry juice it creates a sort of texture in your mouth, but other juices do not?
Answer: Some drinks/foods (namely cranberry juice and red wine) have something inside them called Tannins.  Tannins bind with the proteins in your saliva on your tongue and cheeks, changing (temporarily and very little) the surface of your mouth by taking away some of the natural coating that is normally there.

Question: Why are farmers struggling financially when there are more people than ever before to feed, people eat more on average than ever before, we know more about the science of agriculture than ever before, and there is more advanced machinery for planting / harvesting than ever before?
Answer: Automation is eliminating most of the simple jobs for farmers. A typical farm machine does the work of 40 laborers. So now being a farmer means you need a ton of money to operate a fleet of expensive machines.

Question: Why do men start balding sooner and at a much faster rate than women?
Answer: A product of testosterone called [DHT](_URL_0_) is toxic to hair follicles on the head.

Question: Why do judges and lawyers in the UK still wear those ridiculous wigs in court?
Answer: Why do priests wear their collars backwards? Why do businessmen wear a strip of fabric around their necks that have no function? Why do chefs wear that puffy hat (when any hat would work)? I think labeling something as "ridiculous is a bit subjective

Question: How do animal eggs get their nutrients?
Answer: The yolk contains the nutrients needed for the animal to grow. Think of the yolk as the place a of the egg. The fetus is attached by an umbilical cord to the yolk. By the time the animal is fully grown, the yolk nutrients have been used up.

Question: How does a compiler work and what language is a compiler written in?
Answer: A compiler is basically just a translator.  It turns one language into another one, just like a hypothetical machine that could translate English into Japanese.  The output of a compiler (the language it translates to) is typically the computer's machine code.

Compilers usually have a few pieces.

* The lexer.  This turns sequences of characters into tokens.  For instance, the lexer may see this as input: "w", "h", "i", "l", "e", and return as output TOKEN_WHILE, a simple value that indicates the keyword "while" was seen.

* The parser.  This turns sequences of tokens into a more abstract representation of the language.  For example, you might have this code: "while(1) { }", which the lexer would turn into TOKEN_WHILE, TOKEN_LEFT_PAREN, TOKEN_CONSTANT, TOKEN_RIGHT_PAREN, TOKEN_LEFT_BRACE, TOKEN_RIGHT_BRACE.  The parser would then be able to turn that into a data structure that indicates the programmer requested a while loop.  This data structure is usually an abstract syntax tree.

* The code generator.  This component reads through the abstract syntax tree, and generates machine code.  It may also do compiler optimizations.

Compilers can be written in any language.  They can even be written in the same language which they compile for (e.g. a C++ compiler could be written in C++).

Question: What happens to people who were previously charged with illegal possession of marijuana after a new law legalizes it?
Answer: It depends on the exact nature of the new law.  All else being equal, they may still be convicted, or if already convicted may still be imprisoned, because they broke the law *as it stood at the time*.

However, recognising that this is kind of silly where a law is introduced that basically says "welp, we shouldn't have had that other law in the first place", legislatures may put provisions in the law that cause pending prosecutions to be dropped, and may even automatically commute the sentences of people already convicted.  This, though, is by no means guaranteed.

All of that actually applies to *anything* that becomes legal after having previously been legal, not just possession of cannabis.

Question: The reason behind Colorado county secession vote today
Answer: Many states have tensions between urban areas, which tend to be more liberal, and rural areas, which tend to be more conservative.  In Colorado, which in recent years has trended liberal, legalized pot, banned high-capacity magazines, etc, the rural conservatives are particularly distraught.

Of course, it's rather superficial.  To secede from a state you need approval of that state and the federal government, and that is not going to happen.  Basically they are just having a pointless ballot referendum on how annoyed they are at being on the losing side of various elections.

Question: How do tape recorders adjust for the differences in spool sizes?
Answer: The speed of the tape isn't controlled by the speed that the reels turn, it's the other way around.

Part of the tape path, usually just after the heads, is a cylindrical drive called the [capstan](_URL_0_), and a pinch roller to hold the tape against the capstan.

The capstan turns at a constant speed and *that* is what determines how fast the tape moves. The feed reel and the take-up reel turn at whatever speed it takes to feed/take up the tape at the speed determined by the capstan.

Question: How substances like gasoline are able to store so much energy
Answer: Hydrocarbon chains (like gasoline) are made of carbon and hydrogen. When these substances undergo combustion, the carbon atoms bond with external oxygen to form CO2, and the hydrogen atoms bond with external oxygen to form H2O. Every time a complex molecule (hydrocarbon chain) becomes a simpler molecule, energy is released -- the CO2 and H2O molecules are at a lower energy state.

Petroleum is only able to form under considerable heat and pressure. So, in a sense, burning gasoline is kind of like releasing all that pent up heat and pressure that the petroleum underwent while it was below ground.

Question: If teachers have to spend so much money out of pocket on school supplies for class why don't they just stop?
Answer: Teachers are kind of strange in that they care about the children under their charge and also care about their jobs. Kind of crazy I know

Question: Why do I have two bars of WiFi signal when I lie on my left side, but when I lie flat on my back I loose my Wifi altogether? Surely a few centimetres shouldn't make a difference?
Answer: Wifi signal can act like waves in a pool. Up and down all over the place, but sometimes there is a dead spot where the waves bouncing off the walls cancel each other out. Try moving the router, or even just changing the angle of the antenna.

Question: why are YouTube videos not available to My country (u.s)
Answer: Copyright issues. One company might have copyright laws registered in the US, but not in, say, Russia. So Youtube might block that video in the US because the company can sue them for hosting the video in the US, but won't in other countries.

Question: What sound properties do different musical instruments have different from each other?
Answer: This has a lot to do with overtones and resonance. 

Resonance is pretty self-explanatory: how well something (in the case an instrument) resonates throughout a room or building due to the sound waves bouncing and amplifying for a short period of time. 

Overtones are what make a sound "thick." When an instrument plays a note, there is a dominant pitch that registers. However, there is also normally other pitches that "surround" that pitch to make it sound fuller. Think of a male falsetto note, or Pavarotti hitting that same note. One is thin without many overtones, and one is huge and thick.

If you play a note around a middle C on a piano and on a trumpet and a well-trained tenor sings the same note, none of these three things will sound the same as you have mentioned. This is because the piano has a fairly thin sound (less overtones), the trumpet uses its brass make-up to increase resonance and overtones, and a tenor would use his entire chest and nasal cavity to resonate the sound a fill an opera house. This applies for all musical instruments with some louder, thinner-sounding, thicker-sounding, irritating, warm and colorful etc..

This isn't a conclusive answer to your question but it is a little knowledge that I know and I hope it's helpful.

Question: Why don't more satellites get damaged from space debris?
Answer: While there is a lot of trash around, space is huuuuuge. And the chances of something beeing hit are pretty small. This map shows you all the sattelites in earth orbit _URL_0_ and just look at how much space there is inbetween them.

Question: Why don't humans (and other organisms) evolve into perfect beings?
Answer: All evolution does is adapt you to survive and reproduce in your surroundings. If thats the end goal, humans pretty much are perfect

Question: what is thread-concurrency?
Answer: Thread concurrency is when multiple threads are running at the same time. Idk if the same principles apply for software and hardware, but at least in software, concurrency introduces problems that normally wouldn't exist.

Let's take the example of ATMs that digitally records how much money my bank account has. Now let's say I access my bank account from two different ATM's at the same time, and make a withdrawal from both.

I have 3000 dollars in my bank account initially, and I make two withdrawals of 300 dollars simultaneously. Let's take a look at what happens normally (if I had made two withdrawals consecutively instead of simultaneously) and what happens when concurrency happens.

Normally:

1: ATM queries my account, and sees I have 3000 dollars

2: ATM sees I make withdrawal of 300, subtracts 300 from my total

3: It stores my new value as 2700

4: ATM queries my account again, and sees I want to withdraw another 300

5: It subtracts another 300

6: It now stores my account as 2400 dollars


With concurrency, now two ATM's are simultaneously accessing my banking information. Based on the OS implementation, we do not know when the threads switch, which means we do not know when ATM1 queries, when ATM2 queries, when ATM1 does the withdrawal, etc etc relative to each other. What could happen is:

1: ATM1 completes everything, 

2: ATM2 completes everything.

Which gives the correct outcome anyways. But that is rare. What could happen is:

1: ATM1 could query that I have 3000 dollars, and does the subtraction

2: ATM2 queries my bank account, and sees I still have 3000 dollars, because ATM1 hasn't had a chance to update my balance yet

3: ATM1 updates my balance to be 2700

4: ATM2, given that it read 3000 as my balance, also reaches 2700 as my final balance, and writes it to my bank balance

5: My bank balance is now 2700, even though I withdrew 600 dollars

These kind of errors are thread-concurrency errors

Question: If the minimum wage is increased, won't employers, corporations, the 1%, etc... just increase prices to give themselves the same financial advantages they have now, thereby wiping out the gains for the minimum wage earner?
Answer: You know what won't go up?

That $6000 debt on your credit card.  The $13000 you have left on your car loan.  The $200,000 you have on your mortgage.

Question: Why does direct deposit take upwards of two weeks to activate yet opening a credit account can take 20 minutes at a store?
Answer: Assuming we're talking about direct deposit of a paycheck, it's likely your job that is causing the delay and not the bank. Businesses have to have their payroll and financial booking in order before they can pay you. They might not be able to handle financial changes on short notice for a variety of reasons. If they aren't able to do it within a week, then they have to push it to the next week since you probably only get paid (at most) once a week.

Question: Are Brooklyn, Staten Island, Queens, Bronx and Manhattan considered different cities? And what considers them boroughs?
Answer: They're all part of New York City, though they were once separate and individual cities. As for what considers them “boroughs,” that's the colloquial name for the counties which now bear those names. Queens and the Bronx are the same in both cases, but Manhattan is New York county, Staten Island is Richmond county, and Brooklyn is Kings county. I refer you to Wikipedia for more.

Question: Why do animals like deer, kangaroos and such seem to vaporize when hit by a fast moving car?
Answer: Vaporize? They don't. You can clearly see the bodies after contact.

However, the blood is expelled as a loosely compacted liquid which, as liquids do at high velocity, disperses as a mist.

Some of the internal organs would go with that, too, as they are very squishy, and squishy things hit by something large and moving fast tend to break into small bits -- especially when compressed quickly by the collapsing bone structure.

As for being sent flying... In the first video, the animal falls under either the front or the wheel of the vehicle. In the second, it definitely goes flying.

Compare that to [this video of a deer](_URL_0_) -- hoping it's the one I remember because I can't see videos at work. Should be a deer sent flying as it is hit by the front of the vehicle.

Question: Why does it feel colder when you get wet?
Answer: when water evaporates off your skin, the water takes some energy from its surroundings (meaning you) in order to change from a liquid to a gas. This is also why sweating makes you cooler. The evaporation of any water, sweat or otherwise, cools you down.

Question: How do swype keyboard work and how are they so accurate?
Answer: You start on one letter. The computer takes a list of words that start with that letter. You swype to the next letter -the computer eliminates all words that don't have that letter next. You swype to the third letter and it eliminates more words and so on until you have only the word you swyped in. However, your input gets 'fuzzed' a little by fat fingers usually, so the computer is actually taking the group of letters around where your fingers are and creating several concurrent lists using the fuzzy inputs of each position your finger travels to. When you are done swyping it will present to the user the word that most closely matches the positions your finger traveled across, with other options shown that are either similar to the word you swyped in (essentially doing the same as a spell-checker) or presenting words that you could have typed if your fingers were a little bit inaccurate in their movements.

Question: the meaning behind this quote: "Karachi is like Gotham City.. except we have no Batman.. and our Joker lives in London"
Answer: Karachi (largest city in Pakistan) is currently experiencing some large problems; both in crime, and politically. This is in part due to [Altaf Hussain](_URL_0_) who is the founder and leader of the [Muttahida Quami Movement](_URL_1_) - a political party in pakistan based in the city of Karachi. The problems surrounding the party are complicated, but politics in Pakistan is often dangerous business involving murder and corruption. A large part of the Muttahida Quami Movement and the leader himself (Altaf Hussain) live in the UK due to fear of personal safety.

**TL;DR**: Karachi is politically and criminally chaotic much like Gotham, except there is no one to help (someone like Batman) and the leader of the group of people causing these problems (the Joker) lives in London.

Question: Why is it that Russians are never (or barely ever) referred to as Asians, even though Russia is technically part of the continent Asia?
Answer: Most Russians live in what is considered by most maps to be Europe. However, far more importantly than that, most Russians are ethnic Slavs and are far, far more culturally connected to Europe than any Asian culture.

Question: What would happen if a civilian took the laws in their own hands (Catching criminals, helping the police etc.). Are there any legal restricitions against doing this, like Batman does?
Answer: Canadian lawyer here.

This depends massively on the jurisdiction you are in. In Canada, anyone is allowed to arrest someone they find committing an indictable offence (comparable to a felony), but there are certain restrictions. For example, if I'm going to arrest someone, I have to directly find them committing the crime. A cop can arrest someone if they have reasonable grounds to believe the person committed the offence; the cop doesn't have to catch the guy red-handed.

The big problem with what Batman does (in my jurisdiction) is that most of his ass-kicking isn't arresting people, it's just ass-kicking. Or, to use the language of the criminal law, "assault causing bodily harm".

The two main reasons that police will dissuade citizens from catching criminals on their own are that (1) you're likely to get yourself shot or stabbed eventually, and (2) there's a chance you could somehow screw up a chain of evidence or deprive the arrested person of their rights, which could mean that the prosecution can't succeed.

Question: Back in the old days of Minecraft Modding, why did we need to delete the "META-INF" folder to avoid a black screen?
Answer: Meta-Inf is an address book of sorts. Minecraft will attempt to index everything in that address book. When modding old-school style, we replace files in the minecraft.jar itself. That will lead to some disrepancies in the addresses and whatnot. Minecraft then crashes cause it can't find what it expects. By deleting Meta-Inf, you effectively just tell it not to double check addresses, and everything runs as it should

Question: What is tenure, how do professors get it, and why can't it be taken away when they abuse their power over students?
Answer: This may help:

_URL_0_

A professor certainly can be fired for cause.

Question: What is the "life expectancy" of the human civilisation?
Answer: That's way too complicated to possibly predict, and as far as we know, there's likely not anything we could do to ourselves (nuclear warfare, anthropogenic climate change, etc.) that would wipe us out completely, even if it would be catastrophic. Some humans somewhere would somehow limp to survival. Although we do know that at some point, increasing solar radiation will make the Earth uninhabitable, but that's like a billion years from now (literally) so it's nothing to worry about for now. I would say it's extremely likely there will still be humans in 10,000 years. Will the year 12014 look as good as the year 2014? Who knows. It depends on whether or not we get our act together and tackle all the problems that are easily solvable if we stop being a bunch of dumbasses. It's seriously not that hard to completely dismantle all nuclear weapons, institute 100% clean and renewable energy worldwide, end hunger and extreme poverty. But for the life of us, the people in power can't seem to get it done. 

But humans won't die out that soon. Global agricultural-industrial-information capitalist civilization may die if we don't solve these problems, but humans themselves ain't going anywhere, even if we (I should say THEY) have to revert to primitive agriculture or even hunting and gathering.

Question: My sister and I are the youngest of seven, four years separating her and I. She and I have five distinct birthmarks all in the same places and similar shapes, however none of our other siblings have these birthmarks. Why is this?
Answer: its about DNA...you have some common genes with other siblings that you just don't notice. 

the birthmarks are just more noticable, especially if they are in nearly the same places.

the other siblings probably got those genes as recessive genes means those birthmarks didn't show up for them

Question: Why do airlines ask you to turn off/airplane mode your phone during a flight when? Does it actually affect the flight?
Answer: I'm a pilot. While usually cell phones don't affect our instrumentation (anymore, this wasn't always the case), I can definitely tell if someone in first class (or in the cockpit haha) has their phone on because as soon as we get low enough for them to have service, I will hear a bunch of clicks in my headset if they get a message or something. It's mildly distracting but nothing else. I know that doesn't really answer your question

Question: Why does it take so long for new video game consoles to be produced?
Answer: Consoles are typically sold at a loss to encourage people to buy them.  This increases the install base, and developers want to target the largest audiences possible to maximize sales.  Developers have to pay a licensing fee to the console manufacturers to release a game on their platform.  So the reason it takes a while between generations is because the manufacturers need to make back their loss on sales and production time and then wait to turn their profits on the games sold.

Question: what's the difference between torque and brake horse power?
Answer: Torque and HP are related by an equation:

HP = torque * RPMs / 5252

Torque is the amount of twisting force available at that moment at the wheel. HP is the amount of energy the engine is able to produce, and they are in a fixed relationship with each other.

When people argue about torque vs. horsepower for cars, it's usually because they don't understand that the two things are linked. For acceleration from a low speed, an engine which develops a lot of Torque at low RPMS will also be generating more power at that RPM. Given that you're usually making some sort of trade-off in any situation, those engines tend to generate less torque as their RPMs increase and therefore less power. Engines with their peak HP at high RPMs generally have trouble accelerating at low speeds because the RPM of the engine is necessarily low as it's attached to the wheels.

Question: Does the heat index (or wind chill) objectively effect the human body?
Answer: Before I answer your question, I want to address your 99 vs. 100 degrees C example. Water will evaporate, very quickly, at 99 degrees C. It just won't quite reach boiling (assuming normal atmospheric pressure). Now, what causes the heat index is temperature *and* humidity. The amount of moisture already in the air. We cool ourselves off by sweating. The sweat evaporates from our hot skin, and as it evaporates it carries some of that heat with it, cooling down our bodies. However, the more humid the air the harder it is for sweat to evaporate. The air is already full of droplets of water, so there's no room for our sweat to move into the air. Because of this our excess heat can't be carried away, and we start to overheat more easily than if it was the same temperature without the humidity. Our internal heat rises more quickly because our coolant system can't function properly. With windchill, the moving air carries away heat from the surface of our skin, causing our bodies to lose it more quickly, thus lowering our body temperature.

As an aside, this is why "dry heat" is so dangerous. Because there's virtually no moisture in the air, our sweat evaporates very quickly and we have an easier time of maintaining a healthy body temperature. However, it's still hot and we're sweating so much that you're rapidly losing water, with can very quickly lead to dehydration.

Question: where do birthmarks come from?
Answer: There are two types of birthmarks.

Pigmented birthmarks result from when there is an excess of skin pigment cells, the cells that give your skin colour, in one place. Examples of these would include moles, café au lait spots, and Mongolian spots.

Vascular birthmarks are from an increased amount of blood vessels in a given location. These are red, such as salmon patches and port-wine stains.

It is still unknown why birthmarks form.

Here are a few examples of birthmarks, I'm sure there are many more types, but these are some of the more common ones.

[Café au lait spot](_URL_2_) 

NSFW?[Mongolian spot](_URL_3_) 

[Salmon patch](_URL_0_) 

[Port-wine stain](_URL_1_) (Prominent patch on his head)

_URL_4_

Edit; nsfw

Edit: redux; more info

Question: Why do modern TVs seem to increase the framerate of video, even when to footage is decades old?
Answer: Modern televisions have a setting that is usually turned on by default that causes this effect. The way it does it is by looking at two frames in the image, seeing what the differences are, and "guessing" what another frame between the two would look like if it was there when the show was recorded. The TV then creates this extra frame, and gives the appearance of the TV show or film being recorded at 48-60 FPS.

Question: Short Film Industry. How do short films make money? How much do the directors/producers/actors earn on average?
Answer: They generally don't unless you win an award.

They're usually funded by art grants or private investors as a proof of concept for the director and/or crew's talents.

Question: I read somewhere it's impossible to overdose on melatonin. But, what would happen if I consumed an entire bottle at one time?
Answer: I was laying in bed sleeping when I woke up adrenaline pumping fully alert.  I couldn't move, I was paralyzed.  My body didn't do the "feels like I have a million pound weight" deal, just didn't do crap.

Standing over me was a demon dressed in a white dress.  I've heard stories of the white light, etc.  I thought this was the end.  I must have died in my sleep.  It seemed like 30 seconds.  I was scared shitless. 

Reality was it was 2 seconds.  I had sleep paralysis.  The huge dosage of melatonin I took made it where I still had the chemical that paralyzes you so you don't act out dreams in me when I woke up.

Melatonin is a hormone, not a drug, so overdosing is different.

But I'll be damned if I ever take too much ever again.

Question: Why do I see the same length of my body in the mirror no matter how far I am from the mirror?
Answer: What do you mean by "length of my body"? Do you mean you see yourself as the same height? You see yourself as the same height because you are still the same height. looking in a mirror is like looking at a person on the other side of a piece of glass, standing as far from the glass as you. Since they're still the same height, they'll still appear to be the same height.

Question: What are the differences between mechanical keyboard switches?
Answer: Mechanical switches differ not only in actuation force, but also in the profile of that force. A switch might be designed to require a high force to begin moving, but then it lightens up. Or it can be made to get heavier as you push it. They can also differ in how much force it takes to keep them depressed, and with how much force they come up with. The design of the actuation in that article effects all of these.

Question: the speed of light through different materials.
Answer: That's an error a lot of people make. Light itself doesn't slow down, it only appear to slow down. Light isn't bouncing around inside the material, because it that would be the case, then light would be scarttered in all direction when exiting the material and there would be a randomness in the apparent speed of light depending on how many time each photon bounced. And it isn't being slow down like a person through deep mud because atoms are mostly empty space, so most photon woudn't be affected by the material.

The answer is that when light enter a material it will lose energy to the atoms. Those atoms will absorb some of that energy and will remit light themself. All those smaller wave will create a sort of interference  with the initial wave and the net total of all those wave will create a wave travelling slowler than the speed of light, even if all the individual wave travel at the speed of light. It's a bit like adding a bunch of vectors together.

Question: Why are we circumcised?
Answer: From what I understand, it was a religious reason to Jewish folks, but it became more mainstream when John Kellogg(as in the cereal company) recommended it to prevent masturbation. I may be wrong, but that's what I understand of the subject.

Question: What is the difference between techno and electronic?
Answer: Techno originates from the 80s in Detroit. It sounds dark, industrial, and sometimes depressing. A good example is Prodigy - Breathe: _URL_1_

Electronic is a catch-all term for all music that uses electronic instruments.

"Electronica" is not a genre. It is a marketing buzzword from the 90s when electronic music became more mainstream.

You can find more information here: _URL_0_

Question: Why are so many universities selective with admissions if more students means more revenue?
Answer: Imagine you have a movie theater that seats 200 people. There's a popular movie coming out. Would you sell 800 tickets to the show? I mean, that'e more revenue, right?

Well, yeah, but you can't handle that many people. So, capacity and infrastructure are part of it.

Another part is that limiting the number of students helps them maintain the cachet as an in-demand school. You can be pickier, take the most promising students, and keep a reputation for being a quality institution.

Question: If residential solar is such a good investment, how come 95% percent of homes don't have it yet?
Answer: Probably because it takes 10 - 20 years until you have your costs cut and start to make profits since solar panels aren't cheap at all. Here in germany the goverment was support solar panel companies but have since cut those supports.

Question: Why do so many airline pilots have alcohol problems?
Answer: Poor pay, irregular hours, spending time away from family, stressful environment and lack of rest to name a few.

Question: Why did some animals become mainstream pets?
Answer: They were the easiest to tame and domesticate.  Also, some had actual uses beyond "companion".

Question: Why is it so incredibly difficult to hold in a bowel movement?
Answer: The anus is an involuntary scphincter. When you try to hold in your poops you are controlling muscles around the anus but not the anus itself. Once there is enough internal pressure the anus will relax and there is nothing you can do about it.

Question: How big is an atom?
Answer: Let's try with size comparisons.

For reference, the average measures I'll use are as follows: the diameter of a grain of sand is 0.2 millimetres, the diameter of an atom (electron cloud around the nucleus) is about 200 picometres, and the diameter of the nucleus alone is 10 femtometres.

Now for the comparison:

If a grain of sand was the size of planet earth (that's a 65,000,000,000x magnification) then the diameter of an atom would be 40 feet (about the length of a school bus) and the nucleus would be smaller than this -- >  •  < --

The nucleus is where all the neutrons and protons are.  The rest of the atom size is made of the electron cloud orbiting around the nucleus.  In other words, mostly emptiness.

Question: Why (or how) do certain mobile apps and programs make phones heat up and drain battery so quickly? And how does fixing a certain string of code fix that?
Answer: Most of the time, most parts of your phone aren't being used, or aren't being used fully.

- The GPS chip is switched off when you're not using location services

- The cellular data chip goes into a lower power mode when you're not sending/receiving data

- Even the processor isn't used very much when the app is just waiting for user input, and can be slowed down

However, all of these rely on the app telling the operating system (correctly, of course) what services they're using, and when they've finished with them. So a bug can result in the operating system leaving some hardware switched on, or in a higher power mode, even when it's not needed, because the app hasn't told the operating system it's not using that piece of hardware any more.

Question: How does ADHD affect the brain?
Answer: You know the story of the ant and the grasshopper? The ant works hard, plans for the future, prepares and stores food for winter. Grasshopper fucks around all summer, procrastinates, does whatever he wants and when winter comes he's caught off guard and underprepared. 

Well, in the brain of an ADHD person, the ant is having a nap and the grasshopper is running the show. They have difficulty with executive function (future planning, seeing how decisions will impact them later, foreseeing consequences, benefits of delayed gratification and things of this nature.) Basically the part of the brain that tells you "that's a bad idea" or "you shouldn't do that" or "you should be doing..." is under active. This is why stimulants are used to treat ADHD.  They give the ant part of the brain a jolt and help him rein in the grasshopper.

Question: Why are almonds cheaper in milk form?
Answer: > Doesn't it take way more almonds to make a half gallon of milk then 6oz of raw almonds?

Not "way more", no.  Depending on the recipe, I've seen something like 6oz - 8oz of almonds for half a gallon of almond milk.  And keep in mind that you don't need almonds in great condition.  If you're buying almonds to eat, you probably want them to be whole and unbroken, and that's going to command a slightly higher price.  But for almond milk, the appearance doesn't matter, since they're going to be ground up anyway.

Question: When I pee, am I peeing out the water I drank recently, or the water I drank yesterday to make room for the new water?
Answer: When you drink water, it eventually becomes part of your blood. Your kidney regulates your blood pressure by drawing out water from the blood, which gets excreted as urine. So it's not really possible to differentiate water you drank now from water you drank earlier or even water your body produced.

Question: Human babies are a luxury?
Answer: Our large brains mean we have to be expelled from the body before we grow too large to fit through the birth canal, so as a result we have to do a lot of our growing outside the body.

Our brains are also the reason why we have and can use weapons to prevent being eaten by a lion.

Question: Seeing all of these Harambe  &  Deez Nuts votes in the presidental elections, What would happen if one of them actually got the majority of the votes?
Answer: If the person behind the name *was* eligible, then he or she could get the job. In the last election in the UK, Lord Buckethead stood against Prime Minister Theresa May in her constituency: if he had one, she would have lost the PM job (since the PM has to be a MP), and he would have become an MP.

Question: How can movies shot in the 1980s and 1990s be released on HD platforms such as Bluray?
Answer: Yes, the original 35 mm film had much higher resolution than Blu-ray.

Remember, they were meant to be shown on a huge cinema size screen... if you put up a Blu-ray movie on a 20 meter wide screen it wouldn't look nice.

Question: Before electronic currency, how did central banks, e.g the Fed, pay for the production of legal tender (bills/coins)?
Answer: Electronic bookkeeping was not the first time balances were written down rather than represented with physical objects. Did you think that when I deposited $50 in a bank in 1950, that exact $50 bill was kept in the vault until I asked for it back? No, they took the bill, added it to their stash, and added 50 to the number next to my name. Did you think that, to give my son money for college in 1970, I would have to literally drive across the country with $1000 in a suitcase and hand it to the Bursar? You do know that checks predate electronics, right?

All the Fed had to do back in the day was take the materials that were to be used to print the money, and pay for them with a debit on their account, and a credit on their supplier's account. Same with the laborers. Tim Berners-Lee did a lot of great things, but he didn't invent writing down numbers.

Question: How do planes land safely on seemingly not safe days?
Answer: Airplanes are much heavier than cars, so they slip less.  It's the same reason a heavier car won't slide off the highway as easily as a smaller car.  Plus, the runways are very long and very straight, so they're designed to have lots of room for stopping (and the engines usually will reverse thrust to slow down the plane anyway; cars don't typically go into reverse suddenly when they are driving along a highway and want to stop!  Cars just brake normally, which is why they keep skidding when the wheels stop turning but still slide.)

Question: If I go back a couple of hundred generations I would have more direct ancestors than there were people alive on the planet: How is this possible?
Answer: Incest \o/

edit: to clarify: At some point multiple of these positions in your tree of origin are occupied by the same person.

Question: Why do toe nails typically have fungus while fingernails usually don't?
Answer: Toenails often are confined in a dark, warm, moist environment — inside your shoes — where fungi can thrive.
Toes usually have less blood flow than do fingers, making it harder for your body's immune system to detect and stop infection.

Question: How are tyres attached to wheels?
Answer: In car tires, there's a steel wire that's on the edge of the rubber tire.   This wire is forced over the lip of the car wheel when mounting the tire.   Then tension of the wire combined with friction of the rubber and air pressure seals(mostly) the tire to the wheel.

In some off-road wheels, a securing ring of bolts is used called a beadlock.

Question: why do you always get a distinct feeling/smell/ thing when you get struck in the nose or face?
Answer: I don't think the exact cause is known, but shocks to the brain - which could come through a blow to your face - can produce these odd (metallic?) taste sensations. They're common in concussions. Presumably a taste center in the brain is being knocked and playing up. You should get any potential concussion checked out in case there's a serious injury.

Question: If insects use the moon to navigate at night, how do they navigate when it is a new moon, or any other phase in which the moon is only out for a short time at night?
Answer: The main theory is that they just use the moon as a landmark to help them fly in straight lines... But that there are other cues they use to navigate.

Apparently this is too short for ELI5... It's like if you were using the morning sun to help you walk in a straight line. Even if the day becomes cloudy, there are other things you can use to try to move straight.

Question: Why do Americans use 'mom' and not mum also change other words?
Answer: For the same reason you don't use Ye Old English like you read in Shakespeare's plays, or even the most obscure English from way before that.

Language change, and that's fleek, it's lit, it's groovy, and it's far out, man.

Question: Why do I sometimes 'hear' my heart beat through my ear when I lay my ear on a pillow?
Answer: You are hearing your pulse as it travels through your ear.

The pillow blocks out most external sound, and you laying at rest causes you to focus on certain things.

Question: Why when I press on my skin it leaves a white spot for a couple of seconds?
Answer: You have tiny blood vessels near the surface of your skin (capillaries). When you push on your skin you force blood out of them. When you release it takes a fraction of a second for the blood to return.

Question: Why do big companies fear their workers unionizing?
Answer: Lets say you work for a company and you feel like you deserve a raise.  You walk into your boss's office and you say, "Pay me more or I  quit".  Your boss can let you quit - it is easy to replace a single worker after all.

Now, lets say that you get _everyone_ in the company to walk into your boss's office and say, "Pay us more or we quit".  Your boss isn't so quick to let that happen - if everyone quits, then the company can't do any of its business.  They are going be much more likely to listen to why you all deserve that raise.

That is the ultimate benefit of unions - a single worker has virtually no power to ask a company for anything and is easy to deny, but a _group_ of workers has much more value to the company and, as a collective, will be taken much more seriously.

Now, naturally, your boss knows all of this and doesn't want you to have this kind of power.  They are going to do everything in their power to keep this from happening because unions don't benefit the company, only the worker.

Question: When animals are pregnant and then give birth, does the mother understand what is happening?
Answer: Before you answer this question you have to answer "What do animals understand?". There is limited evidence that animals have the same self-awareness that humans do. 


_URL_0_

Skip to about 5 minutes for an explanation on the explanatory gap and the 'theory of mind'.

Question: Why aren't people electrocuted during a flash flood/storm?
Answer: Being electrocuted in the water isn't easy. I know you get told a lot about not taking a bath during a lightning storm. But chances are even if you did, nothing would happen. There are still thigns taller than you, still a whole lot of places for electricity to conduct more readily, and a lot of space between you and the lightning even in a close strike.

Its not that dangerous to be honest. But in certain circumstances, specific ones, it can really hurt or kill you.

When you have a flood, its highly unlikely for all the worst things to happen at the same time in any given place.

Question: If electrons and protons are oppositely charged, why aren't they attracted to each other in the nucleus of the atom?
Answer: Electron degeneracy pressure and the pauli exclusion principle. The force of this is greater than the electromgnetic force. 
Two fermions cant occupy the same quantum state, unless gravity overcomes this as in a nuetron star. 

ELI5

eseentially the force attracting protons and electrons is weaker than one that is keeping them apart. Think of it like an airplane- how can it fly if gravity is attracting it. Well the force of lift is overcoming the force of gravity. No different with electrons and protons.

Question: Why does it feel like HD movies are more HD than real life?
Answer: Processing.

At least, that's my assumption, as a photographer.

I can take a picture and on the review screen on my camera, it looks pretty close (like 99% accurate) to what I actually see.

Then I pop it in to lightroom, blast the shit out of the contrast, knock down the shadows and raise the saturation a little bit and then magically the shitty, average looking flowers outside my apartment look like the best fucking flowers ever.

edit:

okay fuck it, it's my friday and I have nothing better to do than spend a ton of time editing the same photo over and over so I'm gonna go shoot a flower outside my apartment and then type up what I mean better



edit again:

alright boys and girls here we go!

Here's the base picture I took of some mediocre flower or whatever:
_URL_0_

Here's Lightroom's "auto" settings. Increased exposure and contrast, messed with the levels a bit: _URL_3_

Here's what it looks like with saturation cranked way the fuck out: _URL_4_

Exposure turned down, "vibrance" turned up: _URL_1_

Same image as before, "blacks" channel cranked all the way down, contrast raised leaving only mid-tones and highlights: _URL_2_


As we can see, the same base image has a lot of information in it and the exact same image file as a base can be modified in all sorts of ways to manipulate them. I feel like the "auto" looks the best and probably makes the best point as to why stuff looks a little more "realistic" or "high-definition" than it should -- minor tweaks can take something from being totally mediocre and make it look a bit better. In the "auto" edited photo, colors are a little more colorful, darks are a little darker, lights are a little lighter and most notably the leaf inside the flower itself a lot more saturated. This process can likely be applied to digital video pretty easily as well (I don't know though, can a videographer chime in?) to make regular, hum-drum footage get that extra little "pop".



EDIT AGAIN:

Oh and this isn't HDR. HDR stands for High Dynamic range, usually used in static photos with the sky and something else present in the image. Usually you take 3 to 5 exposures and stitch them together so each element in the image is perfectly exposed. This is just simple editing of a single image.

Question: Ponzi Schemes
Answer: Jill has 2 dollars. Jack tells Jill if she gives him the 2 dollars, he'll be able to give her 3 dollars back later. Jack does so and makes sure Jill tells all her friends what a wonderful deal Jack is offering.

One of Jill's friends now wants to lend money to Jack. Jack takes this money and waits for another one of Jill's friends to lend him some money. With the second friend's money, Jack is able to pay back the first friend with the higher return while pocketing some for himself. Now the first friend will tell his own friends what a wonderful deal this is. As more people lend Jack money, he is able to pay back the people whom he borrowed from earlier, pocketing a bit each time.

The problem is that this money doesn't just appear out of nowhere. The only money coming into the system is the money from Jack's lenders. Meanwhile, money is going out through higher pay outs to earlier lenders and money that Jack has been pocketing and spending. Eventually, there won't be anyone left to lend their money to Jack. Earlier lenders now want their money with interest back. Suddenly, there is more money going out of the system than into it. Eventually, Jack decides to just disappear with what is left, leaving a lot of his later lenders with nothing.

Question: How do simple traffic stops/calls escalate to deadly force for police officers/offenders so frequently?
Answer: The thing is that its not frequent. They dont report the millions of traffic stops that operate smoothly. They find the one or two that escalated and report the crap out of it until people start to believe that cops are killing black people for no reason or drug dealers are gunning down cops on the regular.

 & nbsp;

Situations escalate when either a criminal doesnt want to go to jail and he's armed, or the suspect and officer fail to communicate properly, someone gets scared and someone gets shot.

Question: What is the source of heat for the Earths core?
Answer: >  What is the source of heat for the Earths core?

A small portion is residual heat from the initial collapse of material into the gravity well of Earth, but the majority at this point is from radioactive decay of heavy elements in the core.

Question: Why iOS update is 75MB but requires 1.5GB to install?
Answer: Because that 75 MB contains 3kb of changes to make to this 1MB file, and 2kb of changes to make to this 2MB file, etc etc. when it installs, it has to load the original file, duplicate it, apply the changes, and then return the file to its original place and delete the original.

So why don't they just do this one file at a time, instead of doing them all at once? I am guessing this has to do with safety. If you do it one file at a time and the process gets interrupted, you can end up with a half-applied update and completely bricked phone. OTOH, if you store all the modified files until the last second, there is a much smaller chance of the process being interrupted at a crucial point, and he phone can more easily fall back to its previous functional state.

Question: Why does the combination of a fedora/trilby, graphic tee, and shorts make my skin crawl?
Answer: You've probably gotten such a negative/weird view of these people from Reddit so when you finally saw one you had a pre-determined opinion.

Question: Muscular tone. Why do muscles get harder? How? Why do they get 'soft' faster than they get hard. What's the difference with muscular mass?
Answer: The fibers aren't really getting "tougher" they are getting larger. Muscle fibers are composed of smaller structures called myofilaments (primarily actin and myosin). It is the creation of more myofilaments which causes muscle growth or what we in science call hypertrophy.  
  
When you exercise, you damage the protein in the muscle. This sends signals for your body rebuild. If given the right materials, you're body will repair itself and then add a little more...growing larger than before. 

When you lose what you refer to as muscle tone. It is really just the muscle fibers getting smaller. We call this atrophy. Essentially, you lose what you don't use. This is where the phrase "use it or lose it" holds true. 
  
It is much, much more complex than this. However, this is my ELI5 version. If you have any other questions ask away. 
  
source: master's student in kinesiology: emphasis in exercise physiology

Question: How does head lice start?
Answer: Head lice is a great example of how infection can spread. 

It doesn't spontaneously happen. Someone carries it, and passes it on. 

You and your family are lice free. Your 2 kids go to school, one in daycare, one in kindergarten. 

The kindergarten and daycare are also lice free. 

Your kid goes to the museum and plays dress up with other kids they've never met before.  One child who tries on the roman centurion helmet before your child has lice. 

Your child now has lice. Playing with your second kid at home, they pass it on to them.  Both your children go to school and pass it on to kids they play with. Each of those kids passes it on to their siblings. 

One of those kids goes to Disney Land and tries on a bunch of Mickey hats, passing it on to the next child that tries on the hat. 

The process starts again. 

Rapid control and elimination is the solution. The faster you get an infectious disease or parasite under control, the less it can spread. 

Some species of pubic lice have been all but eliminated in parts of the western world due to the popularity of trimming or removing pubic hair. Without a habitat, the species died. 

If it became fashionable to shave your children's heads until they were teenagers, head lice would see a similar species collapse.

Question: What is a Caveat?
Answer: The most common usage of the word is used as a warning.  An example would be "You should update your computer firmware with the caveat that if you do it in the wrong order you could brick your system."

Question: In regards to colleges/universities, how does "tenure" protect someone from being fired?
Answer: I'm far from an expert, but I believe it's essentially an employment term that acknowledges an advanced academic skill set and offers permanent employment to retain access to those skills even if they're not currently required or aren't meeting any desired output criteria. 

I think it effectively protects you against being made redundant and adds a lot of red tape, rather than actually making it so that you literally *cannot* be fired. 

I'm sure if a tenured professor committed some act of gross misconduct or breached their employment terms in some significant way they'd end up just as fired as anyone else, right?

Question: Will the number of atheists increase as time goes on? 
How would a society where atheists are the largest group behave?
Answer: >  How would a society where atheists are the largest group behave?

Like Norway.

Question: Kneeling during/sitting in national anthem disrespect to armed forces?
Answer: It's only disrespecting the armed forces in a super roundabout way. In the US, we stand to pay respect to the flag, which represents the US. If you're in uniform (military) you also salute. Maybe other professions as well, like police and firefighters, but I don't know for sure. Our military fights for the US, and in some cases comes home covered by that same flag. I don't consider it as disrespecting our armed forces personally. I just think he's a dickhead. I don't think ANYONE is super proud of America right now, what with the candidates we've chosen for ourselves, but the courtesy is to stand and remove any headgear. 

Personally speaking, there's lots of things I think are atrocious about America, but that's why we need to strive always to make America better. I still manage to stand on my feet when the anthem is played, because America is imperfect, but I work to make it more so. 

Essentially, the dude acted like a teenager getting punished, acting out because he didn't like a situation.

Question: How can companies own the rights or patent a chemical?
Answer: A government must exist that creates laws that say such ownership is legal, then it's sold to that company from the government.

Some things are not legal as property in some countries so a patent is different in every single country and a patent in one country does not transfer legally to be a patent in another country.

Question: At what age did the voice in my head begin?
Answer: we don't know. Ask a psychologist or a child development expert.

Question: Volcanoes and SuperVolcanoes. What exactly is a volcano and why does it erupt?
Answer: The Earth, in the middle, is mostly iron and other dense elements. Gravity pulls them together with such force that they're super hot --- so hot that they melt, and become "magma". Floating around on top of all this melted metal and rock is a crust which has cooled off enough to solidify. 

The crust is not one solid piece, though, it has cracks. As the Earth spins on its axis and orbits the sun, the motion of that creates currents and flows in the magma, and it makes the chunks of crust move, too, rubbing up against each other in some spots and pulling apart in others.   (This is what causes earthquakes.) 

In the parts of the earth where two chunks of crusts are pushing up against each other, mountains are created. Sometimes, in and among those mountains, there can be little cracks which go all the way to the surface and allow magma to leak out from inside the earth. 

Did you ever pop a zit? When you have a zit, you got a little resevoir of pus trapped under your skin, and if you apply pressure in just the right way you can force that reservoir to empty through a hole in that surface (a pore, in your skin). **A volcano is an Earth zit.** Sometimes when the chunks of crust shift in the right way, they apply pressure along the crack and magma comes shooting out. 

Here's where the planet Earth is not so much like your face, though. Unlike the pus in your zit, the magma in the earth's crust is burning at thousands of degrees Fahrenheit and giving off a stream of poisonous gas generated by the vaporized rock and metal as it cools. When a volcano pops, not only does the magma itself come out, but it can send a huge wave of poisonous gases rolling out over the landscape for miles. If a volcano is under enough pressure, it can also take a big chunk of the mountain with it when it blows, instantly burning any trees or dirt that had built up on it and turning them to ash, and spewing layers of ash and rock out over the landscape for miles around. This, famously, is what happened to the Roman town of Pompeii -- a nearby volcano erupted and over the course of a day or two the town was buried in a 15 ft deep layer of ash. (Most of the people had suffocated already in the poison gas wave.) 

Pompeii was just a regular-sized volcano, though. We have evidence from prehistoric times of volcano eruptions that were much larger than that --- they're much rarer, but also much more powerful, and these are called supervolcanos. It's believed that the Yellowstone area could be the center of such a supervolcano, but if it is the last time it went off was hundreds of thousands of years ago. A supervolcano eruption could bury a lot more than one or two towns in ash --- more like half a state. 

But even that wouldn't be the worst consequence. See, in addition to the chunks of ash that are big enough to float back to earth over the course of hours or days, volcanos eruptions create tons of ash particles so tiny they can float about almost indefinitely, and be propelled by winds high into the atmosphere. They can stay up there for upwards of a year, and if the volcano is big enough and throws up enough ash, the volume of it in the upper atmosphere absorbs so much sunlight it affects the weather here on earth. A big volcano --- not a supervolcano, just a pretty big one --- erupted in Indonesia in the 1880s. They called that year "the year without a summer." It affected the whole world --- in New England it was still snowing in June. Farmers couldn't grow a lot of their crops. Many people went hungry.

If a super volcano went off, the same thing could happen again.  If it was big enough, hundreds of millions might starve to death. It would be very similar to what killed the dinosaurs --- it was a comet hitting the earth in their case and not a volcano, but the problem was mostly the same --- a cloud of ash hovering in the atmosphere and dropping the temperatures enough to kill off tons of plants and animals all over the world. 

Edit: typos

Question: how do you make a Haiku?
Answer: A Haiku is a poem written in a 3 line format. It doesn't need to rhyme, or have rhythm or anything like that. It literally only needs to follow the pattern of syllables per line 5 7 5.

This is a haiku.

This line has more syllables.

Than the first and last.


...is a Haiku.

Question: why do some countries (such as the U.K.) drive on the opposite side of the road as the U.S.? When the car was invented, why was no standard created?
Answer: Driving on the side of the road was decided way before the invention of the car.

If I remember correctly the UK drives on the left because when everybody had swords and road around in horse and carriages they would ride on the left so they could joust with their favoured right hand should they need too. Over time this just became the norm and it stuck. No reason to change it.

Question: ELI(foreign)5: Why is Boy Scouts of America such a big deal?
Answer: The Boy Scouts is like an after-school club that kids can join. A lot of boys are in the Boy Scouts - it's very popular. They do fun things, like learn how to light fires, and tie knots, and navigate. They work on projects which, when they finish them, they get a [badge](_URL_0_), which they can sew to the vest of their Boy Scout uniform. When they get old enough, they can do a very big, difficult project to become an [Eagle Scout](_URL_2_), which can help them get into college easier.

Currently, the Boy Scouts are in the news for [denying gays membership](_URL_1_).

Edit: Wording.

Question: Why is it so difficult for US Government workers to be terminated?
Answer: It is a way to reduce corruption and political favoritism.  Most federal workers have what is called "civil service" protections, which means they have to be hired in an open, competitive process, and can only be fired for good reason.   Important employment decisions (like hiring, firing, promotion, suspension, etc.) can be reviewed by a special group called the "Merit Systems Protection Board".    Before the civil service system was introduced, it was common for incoming presidents and their cabinet members to fire most of the people from the previous administration, and replace them with their friends and political allies, regardless of whether those friends and political allies were qualified for the job.  Congress put the civil service in place to make sure that the vast majority of lower level government workers were hired, fired and paid according to skills, abilities and performance, rather than political loyalty.   There is a certain amount of tradeoff, because it takes a bit longer to get rid of someone who is doing a bad job.   But it's certainly not impossible to fire a government worker doing a bad job -- it just has to be documented over time, with plenty of warnings to improve (or the misconduct has to be very serious).

Question: Morning wood, and if a similar phenomenon occurs in women
Answer: There are a few theories about why this happens but scientists aren't exactly sure the cause of morning wood. Women will also get clitoral erections in the morning but they're not as noticeable.

Question: The USPS suffered a $5.3 billion loss in the most recent quarter of this year, is there a possibility that the Postal Service could go out of business? What happens then?
Answer: If the USPS gets in too bad of a financial situation, the US government will have to reabsorb it; there are way too many things the government needs it for to just let it go out of business.

Question: Why can't the UN's blue helmets intervene with force when the situation calls for it?
Answer: This is actually my debate topic for this month! Technically, they can, it just has to follow the 3 principles of peacekeeping. They must [1] have the consent of the host country (the country where they will have troops on the ground) [2] Impartiality in their dealings (not in execution), to protect the civilians without furthering the conflict and [3] Non-Use of Force Except in Self Defense or Defense of the Mandate, So they can only use force if they are being threatened, the civilians are directly being threatened currently, or the U.N. Security Council authorizes offensive actions (which had only happened in the democratic republic of Congo, but lead to the M23 rebel group being disarmed in 18 months, whereas the peacekeepers had been on the ground for many years before that with out the authorization of offensive action)

Question: Why do toddlers like to see their own reflections so much?
Answer: "It looks like me, but I'm right here, it moves the same as me too, I must observe the specimen."

Question: What will happen if a skinny guy lifts lots of weights without eating a ton?
Answer: He'll get leaner and stronger, but not much bigger and not as much stronger as he would were he to eat more.

Question: How is sound digitally stored?
Answer: You're actually pretty close to the truth for some forms of sound storage.  

Sound is recorded with a microphone, basically just creates an electrical signal that responds to different levels of air pressure.  You can record those air pressures, and you record the sound.  Analog recording, could say, connect the microphone with its electrical changes related to air pressure to a little arm that would go up and down with the air pressure, to engrave a track in wax cylinder or similar reasonably soft object.   Then to play it back, you use the little arm to regulate the electrical power sent to speaker, which moves back and forth pushing air to recreate those pressure changes.  

For a computer, you  set it up so that you can record a measurement of the pressure enough times every second, that when you recreate those pressures with a speaker it sounds like the same sound.  And storing data this way will basically give you .wav file.  Its also how the data is stored on a CD.  

However you're also right about storing sound as a collection of pitches with volume.  That's for example how an MP3 does it.   You take all that data and you do a bit of math to it called a Fourier transform.  (Interestingly this transform is also used as part of jpeg image format).    The Fourier transform isn't any type of compression in itself, its a very general piece of math used everywhere in science.  It lets you take all this data you gathered of sound pressure over time, and change the way you look at it.  Now what you have is a collection of sound frequencies and how loudly they're represented, and if you add them all up you get the original signal recreated exactly as well as you first measured it.  Now if you want to save space in making an mp3 file, you can use this new way of looking at the information you measured, and drop pieces of it.  Frequencies above and below human hearing? gone.  Anything else people can't hear the difference between? Kill it with fire.   How aggressive you are depends on the bit rate.  But it is definitely very common to store sound on a computer as collection of intensities at a series of frequencies.  

You had a pretty good guess.

Question: How come when you take a picture of your computer screen on a cell phone/digital camera all the pixels show up?
Answer: Well the reason is simple. When you see a monitor it is actually projecting more than one image at any given time. This is how we create motion. Without getting into to much detail you can push your mouse and the little arrow will move around. So what is actually happening here is multiple images are being displayed and thus you have movement! So when you take a picture you are only grabbing one frame of the screen. With a fancy camera you can take a long exposure shot by adjusting the shutter speed function and will have a more rich looking image of your screen.

Question: why is the speed limit set at a speed that most people will surpass by 5-10 mph and not get pulled over? Is there a reason they don't set the limit 5-10 mph faster and actually enforce it strictly?
Answer: I think the practice exists because that 5-10 mph helps compensate for normal fluctuations in speed (up/down hills) and precision in instrumentation (worn tires, viewing angle of the speedometer, variations in the radar gun) and the police generally don't want to issue contestable tickets.

That's not really a reason why people shouldn't manage their speed to not exceed the limit by building that buffer in to their cruising speed.  But since it's ultimately the officers decision if they will issue the ticket, it's technically their decision to grant that buffer.

Question: I just don't understand Citizens United.
Answer: First of all, Corporate Personhood was established in the late 1800s, way before Citizens United. 

And secondly, your question has nothing to do with your example. The issue with Citizens United had to do with Campaign Finance. Before the case, there were limits on what an entity could do in terms of Broadcasting political ads before an election, they were limited within 30 days of a primary, 60 for a general election. The SCOTUS overturned previous cases, which essentially allowed entities like SuperPACs to broadcast political ads like anyone else.

It is still illegal for them to donate directly to a campaign fund, but that point is moot, since the major point of campaign funds is to raise funds for ads, so by simply being able to pay, produce and broadcast political ads on their own, there is no really need for the SuperPACs to donate directly anyway. 

The other problem is accountability, before the case, political ads had to run a disclaimer telling you which candidate's campaign was supporting the ad, but with the new ruling, SuperPACs need only say that the ad is from them, and do not have to mention the candidate they support at all. This is an issue because the SCs are allowed to raise nearly unlimited amounts of cash from anonymous sources, so you cold have some Mobil Executive donating millions to a SC that runs an ad against a candidate who is against Oil drilling.

Question: I can read a sentence like "I bluit my husoe in Eanngld" due to cognitive ability but I can't understand it verbally, why?
Answer: Because verbal and visual patterns are recognized differently. Visually, you can recognize "Eanngld" as "England," but verbally "Ean" has little relation to "Eng" and "ngld" has almost no relation to "land," assuming you can pronounce them properly. "Bluit" ("blewt"?) sounds nothing like "built" ("bilt"), so it's difficult to make that leap. "Husoe" ("Who-so") has an extra syllable in there compared to "house" ("hows"), so that won't make the translation at all.

Question: Tor vs VPN vs Zenmate, and can/should we use all of them at the same time?
Answer: Think of the Internet as a mail service...

Tor would be like putting your mail in a very strong safe, sending it to a random guy, which takes off the "from" address and replaces it with his own, then securing the rest of the address information (e.g your (figurative) fingerprints) and gives it to another random guy, and so on until it gets sent to the recipient.

VPNs, however, would be more like sending your mail to a super-secure mailing system, then arriving at the system's HQ, before sending the information to the recipient.

Zenmate is a VPN.

Combining both of them is a BAD idea, unless you want to step off legal boundaries... [Source](_URL_0_)

Question: Why is it that during the weekday, I have a hard time waking up at 6am and want to sleep forever, when on weekends, I am naturally up at 6am and ready to start the day?
Answer: because it's your own choice to get up on weekends, not a forced one. you can either sleep longer or get up, and you enjoy that possibility of choice, therefore you feel okay with your decision. during the work week, you have no nice choice: either you go to work or you might have problems.

Question: Please tell me the difference between effects and affect? I searched on Google but that isn't helping. Please give examples
Answer: A lot of people have told you that effect is a noun and affect is a verb.  Unfortunately it's not that simple.  Both words can be used as both nouns and verbs.  Affect as a noun is pretty rare nowadays, and it's fine in an ELI5 answer to basically ignore it, but effect as a verb is somewhat common.

**Effect as a noun:** Asking her for a kiss didn't have the effect I wanted.  *An effect is a result*

**Affect as a verb:** You affect the bees when you destroy the flowers. *To affect something is to cause an effect on that thing*

**Effect as a verb:** The candidate says that he wants to effect change in Washington. *To effect something is to cause that thing to result*

**Affect as a noun:** Juliet's affects towards Romeo were generally positive.  *An affect towards (or for) something is a feeling brought about by that thing*

Question: Why are we told to ice injuries?
Answer: I can't be 100% sure without my resources in front of me, but I believe it is to help reduce blood flow, which would be carrying proteins that stimulate inflammation (a part of healing). Also, overloading nerves with sensations of cold help lower the amount of pain recognised by the brain.

That being said, I have heard/read that ice does not penetrate as deep as once thought, and therefore outside of superficial changes, it does little to help reduce inflammation and pain in joints and muscles.

*please feel free to correct any of my mistakes!

Question: homelessness and Skid Row in LA
Answer: Mental illness.  Persistently homeless people tend to have mental illnesses and there aren't enough places to treat them, so they end up congregating together on the streets.

Question: When someone gets hit by a speeding car, what actually kills them? Is it the impact itself? The part where they fly high and snap in circles? Impact from hitting the ground?
Answer: (My apologies to physics folks)

So take a minute and imagine yourself tripping and falling in a way that breaks your wrist. You were walking along, tripped on a rock, and tried to catch yourself on your way down. All of the energy of your falling (your weight, moving at speed) had to go somewhere. Your reaction focused it on your wrist, and it was just too much. So your wrist broke. 

It's not hard to imagine a car moving at 40mph has a -lot- of energy. That's a lot of weight, moving at a decent clip. Think about having to slam on the brakes at 40mph, and how hard you and your brakes are working to stop that car. 

So put all of that energy into your body all at once. If you put it into your legs, your legs will probably break, with energy to spare. The remaining energy is dissipated as you land somewhere and bruise a lot of your body. That's probably survivable. 

But what if that remaining energy went into your head, because that was the next thing to impact? Or all of that energy went directly into your torso where so many of your soft vital tissues are? This starts to sound like really bad news. 

That's why it's so complicated. All of that energy is going -somewhere-, and some subtle changes will make the difference between bruises and fatal wounds. 

PSA, as the wife of a volunteer firefighter: Wear your seatbelts and helmets, folks. Take it easy in shitty weather. Don't drive when you really shouldn't (drunk, tired, distracted, or whatever) Accidents are going to happen, but they're a whole lot easier on everyone if they end up being low-energy.

Question: The difference between psychologist, psychiatrist, and therapist
Answer: it's levels of training, and what the training focused on.

therapist is a general term for anybody who gives therapy. This can be a pastor who only graduated from high school, a psychologist, or a psychiatrist. 

a psychologist is someone who got a master's or a PhD in psychology, counseling, or therapy- in other words, a college degree + extra training. They focus on talk and behavior therapy and go in-dept on more theoretical aspects of mental illness and treatment. 

a  psychiatrist is a medical doctor- just like a pediatrician specializes in kids, an oncologist specializes in cancer, a psychiatrist specializes in mental illness. Like all doctors, they went to college, then 4 years of the same kind of medical school, where they learned all about what can go wrong with the human body. After med school, they did a psychiatry residency and learned how to be a psychiatrist.

whether or not you see a psychologist or a psychiatrist for your mental illness depends on what you want. The #1 difference is that as MDs, psychiatrists can prescribe medication, psychologists cannot (except in New Mexico*), mainly because they didn't go to 4 years of med school to learn everything about the human body, so they don't have the background to understand exactly what the drugs do. Alternatively, psychiatrists give therapy, but their therapy training is not nearly as extensive and intense, and they don't have time to see every patient for hours of therapy.   So the two professions are not in competition with each other- they are a partnership that work together to help the patient.


*edit- I might add that only PhD level psychologists can prescribe, they can only prescribe psychiatric meds (so, not, like, antibiotics) and the training to do so takes about 4 years to complete, keeping in mind that getting a PhD in psychology takes at least 6 years after college.

Question: How do sites like Groupon and LivingSocial work?
Answer: Their basic model is they call up a business, say "hey, if you give 50% off coupons, and give us 50% of your revenue whenever someone uses that coupon, we'll advertise you on our site". That's right, the deal for the business is they will make 1/4 the amount of money they would usually make for each sale with that coupon. Given that a lot of businesses operate at a 5% margin, this is a huge loss for that business. 

Groupon, however, is making the same amount of money as the business each time a coupon is used, but their costs are virtually zero. So groupon's profit margin on a coupon is something like 95%. 

Why would a business take such a terrible deal? Usually it's a business that wants to get a bigger customer base and traditional advertising hasn't worked. They figure that, even just giving away their product, will generate enough return customers that it's worth it. Of course, if too many people get the coupons and not enough of them come back, it can be financial suicide for the business. 

This is the problem for Groupon - they got famous for these amazing deals, but a lot of businesses that used Groupon suffered huge losses from tons of people getting the coupons and none of them coming back later. (For example, you might try a cupcake place if the cupcakes are $2, but you won't come back if they are $4. So you get the groupon, try the cupcake, the business LOSES $2 on you, and then you never come back for them to recoup that loss). A lot of places have wised up to this and Groupon is having a harder time convincing companies to sign up. 

I believe LivingSocial has a similar model but I do not know for sure.

Question: Why do photographs sell for millions of dollars when the photographer could just release a duplicate at any time?
Answer: When artists sell pieces for this much, part of the sale includes a guarantee about how many copies of the work they will reproduce. If the artist were to go on and make more, presumably the first purchaser could take the artist to court and null the sale, forcing them to return the money.

Question: Why is the range from boiling to "absolute hot" much, much longer than the range from freezing to absolute cold?
Answer: How many banana peels could you have in your front lawn?

It is pretty clear there is a minimum number, namely zero. But what is the maximum number? Is a tower of banana peels one mile high still *in* your front yard? Do they still count as banana peels if the ones on the bottom are crushed into sludge? Is there any point where adding one more banana peel will put the pile beyond the definition of *in*?

Temperature works the same way. It represents the average amount of kinetic energy an object's molecules have, essentially how fast are they be-bopping around. It is pretty clear there is a minimum speed, zero (more or less), achieved at absolute zero.

But there is no clear cut absolute hot, it all comes done to how your define temperature. If an substance's average kinetic energy is too high for molecules to hold together, does temperature still mean anything? What if it is too high for atoms to exist? Subatomic particles?

If you really needed an upper bound, take all the energy in the entire universe, put it all in one place, and recreate The Big Bang. The first 10^-43 seconds after the Big Bang is known as the Planck Epoch, and is the smallest amount of time the modern physics can represent in any meaningful way. During that brief epoch, the temperature of the fledgling universe would have been over 10^32 C.

You really can't get any hotter than that.

Question: the value of USD vs the euro. If the dollar is worth more than the euro, does that mean I have more money if I go over to Europe?
Answer: I have lived all over the world while still getting paid in dollars so I think I can answer this.

In short yes, if you convert your dollars to the local currency you will have more than you would in dollars.

The longer answer is that even if you have more Euro doesn't mean that you could buy the same amount of stuff as you could with the relatively smaller amount of dollars. 

There is something called purchasing power parity, and it is used to describe the "worth" of a currency in what can be bought with it. There is something called the "big mac index" and it basically illustrates how many hours you would have to work in a day to purchase a big mac.

So if I have 3 dollars, got to Europe and exchange that for 5 euro. but a big mac is 3 dollars in the US and 5 Euro in Germany, then my 3 dollars are "worth" the same as the 5 euros.

This is a massive oversimplification but this is ELI5 and I think it illustrates the point fairly well, if not at exactly a 5 year old level.

Question: What is Pantheism?
Answer: From what I understand [a little], the Universe equals divinity. There is no personal God that is seperate from the Universe // nature // the material.

Some other religions have God as some seperate being who created the Universe... and/or is personal and cares about *you*, as an individual.

A starting point: _URL_0_

Question: how do trees know when to grow leaves?
Answer: Generally it has to do with the change in daylight, not with the change in temperature...although that may have some small effect in some species.

Question: Suicide Squad movie. Is is some kind of alternate universe? Who are they?
Answer: The suicide squad are a group of villains who have been held by the government an are given the option to fight for there country. They mainly do it so they can get reduced prison time or to get some freedom. 

The reason there called the suicide squad is because the missions are suicide missions a lot of the time and they have bombs implanted in there body incase they try to escape.

Hope that helps. I don't read the comics so that's what I know

Question: Why does Zalgo text seem to display everywhere regardless of localization?
Answer: Zalgo text takes advantage of tricks built into unicode. 

Unicode is a standard for how text in all the world's major languages should be handled. It includes support not just for the latin alphabet but quite a few writing systems, including ones where text goes in other directions than left-to-right. On modern computers and technology, supporting unicode is pretty much required if you want your device to be usable globally.

Unicode has some characters built into it that aren't "real" letters, but indicate "this next symbol goes above/below the previous one" or "this next stretch of text is vertical, not horizontal." It's intended for languages where that happens... but if you cram a bunch of those characters together you can get weird effects like the zalgo text.

Because unicode just changes how characters are arranged, it can't really be used for glitches or code exploits, so nobody loses sleep over "if I try really hard I can make this messaging app look weird."

Question: Why do some people get dizzy/feel uneasy while reading or using an electronic device while in a car
Answer: My LI5 explanation - You work out where you are and how you are moving from both your eyes, and the motion detection organs in your ears. When you are in a car, your eyes see the device in front of you, and it does not appear to be moving. But your ears pick up all the movement of the car. 

So your eyes are saying 'You are still', your ears are telling you 'You are moving,', and your brain looks at your eyes, and looks at your ears, and says, "You're sick!". And so you are.

Question: Why has Botswana done so well compared to the rest of Sub-Saharan Africa?
Answer: Tiny country with giant diamond reserves and made a deal with DeBeers early on where Botswana gets 70% of the money and DeBeers runs the diamond mines for them. 

A lot of African countries kicked all the whites out after independence and that hurt their economies. That wasn't likely to happen in Botswana as their first leader was married to a white woman.

The Tswana tribe that dominates the country is known for having their act together. Most Tswana live in South Africa and their Homelands were the most successful ones during Apartheid.

Question: What happens when the breath gets knocked out of you?
Answer: This happens when you are punched in the center of your belly, around the navel area. Two things happen:

1: Your diaphragm gets forcibly compressed (assuming you don't have absurdly powerful abs to protect it from the impact), forcing air out of your lungs. The diaphragm is a large muscle in your belly used to breathe, so striking it forces air out of the lungs, such as in the Heimlich maneuver.

2: You are also being struck in what's called your solar plexus, a large collection of nerves centered in your belly. The shock causes a tremor of energy to pass through your entire nervous system. Similar to taking a blow to the spine (such as falling on your ass and hitting your coccyx - your tailbone), this causes a short period of minor paralysis as your nervous system is temporarily overloaded, causing you to not be able to breathe in again to replace the breathe that was forced out when your diaphragm was struck.

Question: Why does your throat hurt when you chug down carbonated drinks repetitively?
Answer: Our bodies have sensory receptors that allow us to feel and respond to things like pressure, changes in temperature, light, and pain. "Nociceptor" is the specific type of sensory receptor that allows us to experience pain.

Carbonated drinks have a high content of carbon dioxide (CO2) that our body isn't used to. Nociceptors perceive that CO2 as an excess of stimuli (just like how thermoreceptors in your body react to excess heat, when you burn yourself on the stove), and transmit the feeling as pain to your brain. 

(I learned this from my Human Anatomy and Physiology textbook by Elaine Marieb and Katja Hoehn).

This article might help: _URL_0_

Question: How is Grand Theft Auto allowed to use cars that are almost exactly like real cars?
Answer: because they aren't selling cars. There is nothing proprietary about an image of a car. Just the car itself and the name.

Question: How do we know the visible universe is 4% and not more or less?
Answer: The visible universe and the observable universe are two different things. The thing that is 4% is the collective mass of things in the observable universe comprised of ordinary (visible) matter. The other 96% is dark matter and dark energy, which are invisible but whose presence can be roughly detected via gravitational effects. From these gravitational effects, we have determined roughly how much dark matter and dark energy there are in the observable universe, and there's a lot. 

Specifically, dark matter impacts rotational velocities of galaxies, and dark matter impacts the rate of expansion of space. Measuring those allowed us to learn how much there is.

Question: - The Euro Crisis
Answer: In simple terms, when an economy is doing bad, governments tend to make the currency worth less so that people will buy the goods. Then they can get the economy going again. But in the eurozone, the governments that are in trouble can not make the money worth less because it is a international currency and they do not have control over it.  So they have no way to really get the economy moving easily, causing periods of unemployment to last longer, and causing the public debt to increase. That is why countries like Greece and Spain are not doing well, they can not devalue the currency, so they can not get the economy moving again easily, so unemployment stays high, causing government revenues to stay low, causing public debt to increase. If these economies do not pick up soon, they will have to default or severely cut public services, which could send them into a deeper recession, which would put them back to square one, but in a worse situation. If the country defaults, it would hurt the euro, and that would affect all countries in the eurozone, that is why there is such a push to prevent them from defaulting. 

TLDR: Countries cant manage the value of the money, which makes it harder to get out of a recession, which could cause default if it lasts a long time, which would hurt every country in the eurozone.

Question: Why does music trigger vivid memories?
Answer: The hippocampus and the frontal cortex are two large ares in the brain associated with memory and the take in a great deal of imformation every minute. Retrieving it is not always easy. It doesn't simply come when you ask it to. Music helps because it provides a rhythm and rhyme and sometimes alliteration which helps to unlock that information with cues. It is the structure of the song that helps us to remember it, as well as the melody and the image the words provoke.

Question: Why does a four cylinder Harley motorcycle have a low rumble exhaust note like an american V8, but inline four cylinder engines (Honda, Toyota, Volkswagen) have a raspy high exhaust note?
Answer: Harleys have twins, not fours. V twins traditionally have a low, rumbling sound to them compared to the higher revving inline fours. Mainly this is down to the size of the explosion and the frequency. A 1000cc inline four has four, small explosions every revolution, and these combine to form a very high pitched whine when combined with the typical 4-2-1 exhaust. A 1600cc twin has two, large explosions every revolution, giving it that rumble especially with open pipes, one per cylinder.

A classic V8 has that deep rumble due to low restrictions in the exhaust pipes, large pistons, and a low idling speed. Inline fours have a higher pitch due to their comparatively smaller pistons, differently designed exhausts, and faster engine speed.

The biggest deciding factor of how an engine sounds is the exhaust. A modern V8 sounds very similar to an inline four, as their exhausts are a much more efficient design. With the right exhaust, an engine can sound quiet, loud and raspy, or loud and low, all depending on the tuning.

Question: What is the purpose of the "rough" pavement outside of grocery stores?
Answer: I know that this type of thing is used in other places (like on a subway, they have rough paving like that so it can be felt) as a way of warning blind people that they are near a street or something else dangerous. I'm not sure if that is the purpose at grocery stores, though.

Question: Why do some people have permanent small red veins in their eyes?
Answer: >  I'm assuming that that's normal. How is this called and what's this all about?

Yes, they are normal. Our eyes are flesh and need blood, they are called "blood vessels" or "capillaries" and they get the blood to keep our cells alive to and from where it needs to be.

Question: What does "senpai" mean and what does it mean for Anime fans?
Answer: Senpai roughly translates to "upperclassman." Basically, a senpai is an older student, possibly a mentor, and a "kohai" would be the yonger student, or mentee. The senpai is expected to guide the younger student, while the kohai is expected to do menial tasks for the senpai. It's sort of like a traditional English boarding school hirearchy.

The m/n thing I think is just a translation issue.

Question: why do we picture the earth as the northern hemisphere facing upwards rather than downwards?
Answer: Generally,  the most powerful nations in the world have been in the northern hemisphere.   They made the maps so they put themselves at the top.

Question: How come alcoholism is considered a disease but being addicted to smokes or other substances isn't?
Answer: Technically they are diseases... But if you're talking about public perception, it's probably because of how much it affects the person - a chronic smoker can still go about their day-to-day life with fairly little impact. They may take an extra break here and there, and spend lots of cash on cigarettes, but other than that they're fairly normal. Nicotine gives you a buzz, but it doesn't completely shut you down... 

But a chronic drunk? They can't go about their normal day to day life while drunk off their ass, so it has a more immediate impact on them. If they're always drinking, they're likely to lose their job, and from there things spiral downwards. Yes, there are functioning drunks, but even those are still noticeable if you actually interact with them.

Question: why is Scrabble more popular in English than other languages?
Answer: One possible reason is that while in English-speaking countries, especially the US, Scrabble tournaments were widely played, increasing awareness of the game: this didn't happen so often in other countries.

There are sometimes also problems with other languages that make a game made for the English language a bit difficult. Obviously, the number of each letter had to be different and each letter could score differently in different languages, but there were other difficulties as well.

In the German game, for example, the rules had to be changed in 1987 because the game was so difficult to play. Not only the rules, but the distribution and scoring of letters.

In the original rules, players drew 8 tiles, but only uninflected forms of words were allowed.

What this is means is this: in German, a verb like "machen" ("to make", "to do") can have many different forms: "mache", "machst", "macht", "machet", "gemacht", "machte", "machten" and so on, but only "machen" was allowed. An adjective like "rot" ("red") can have many different forms: "roter", "rote", "rotes", "roten", "rotem" and so on, but only "rot" was allowed.

Under the new rules, each player gets only seven tiles, but all inflections are now allowed. Purists dislike the new rules, though, because it makes it harder to make really long words but everything else is, for them, *too* easy. So you now have disagreements between those people with new sets who just want to play the game, and those with old sets who insist on the "classic" rules. That's not especially good PR for the game.

Question: If cats are lactose-intolerant, how did we come to the belief that giving cats milk = good? Or asked differently; how is it that cats (seemingly) enjoy - to the level of demanding it - milk?
Answer: Cats are carnivores, meaning they depend entirely on meat and fat for sustenance. We add non-meat products to their food, such as grain/corn, but with enough protein and fat to nourish them properly, as well as a special chemical called "taurine," which is vital to a lot of different functions in the body. Cats cannot digest the sugar (lactose), but they go bananas over the fat. They enjoy the milk for the fat alone, but a cat doesn't know what "lactose intolerance" is. This then gives them the squirty poops, as it does with some people. Most people can see is that the cat loves it, so give it more. We do the same thing with our human children and candy. Terrible side effects, but they like the taste and cry for it, so give them more!

Edit: All to Most

Edit 2: I've been getting a lot of questions regarding if different varieties of dairy are safe to feed to your cats, and comments about taurine. For all of you-

*Cat's are lactose intolerant- they cannot digest lactose. Lactose is a carbohydrate. Check the nutritional facts on your dairy products. If it reads 0g carbs, it should be fine, but it is still advisable to not feed your pets dairy.

*Taurine is a naturally occurring compound that is vital for Na/K pump of cells. That is why it is added to energy drinks. They add electrolytes, so they also add something to help your body make the most use of those electrolytes. Cat's do not produce any of their own, so they need it from the food they eat. The only substantial source of taurine is from other animals, cats are carnivores and NEED meat. DO NOT GIVE YOUR CAT RED BULL (I hope that is the last time in my life I ever have to say that).

Question: How would the internet work on an interstellar scale?
Answer: That is correct. No information can travel faster than the speed of light, and so any "universal internet" would only update that fast.

In other news, aliens on the planet Kepler 9b just updated space-Reddit to find that Jesus has just been crucified.

Edit: Due to the amount of people responding to this with "quantum entanglement", let me just remind you that, as far as we can tell, quantum entanglement does not allow for communication of information. Please see "No-Communication Theorem" for more information.

Question: Apple has deep pockets and is shoving huge amounts of money to artists to make music temporarily exclusive to their service.Smaller Services like Spotify, who don't have a trillion dollars to throw at people can't do this. Is this Anti-Competitive?
Answer: It is certainly an attempt to beat the competition. But since they are only booking a small percentage of the available musicians, it is not making it hard for the competition to do business.

Question: Why does a propane fire have that last "blow" when the gas supply is turned off?
Answer: The proper ratio of air and propane causes it to burn nicely, like when you are cooking on your bbq. But when close off the gas supply you decrease the propane to air ratio and it makes a less stable. This causes a more volatile ratio of the two gasses and it explodes. Research stoichiometric ratios and upper and lower explosive limits.

Question: Why does birth control make some women depressed?
Answer: Incase you wanted more information, let me give it a shot. Birth control works by increasing and decreasing hormones in the body. There are several different things going on, but the main thing is changing estrogen and progestin in the body. The change in estrogen levels is linked to several problems, weight gain, lack on energy, increase in acne, mood swings.. so although there's no definitive proof birth control can cause depression, there are many things birth control is linked to. However, taking the pill every day at the same time is a HUGE factor (not just in preventing pregnancy). By taking it regularly every day your body will regulate the hormones in the body, leveling them out and lowering risk of possible side effects. Some women take longer than others to adjust, and others may have to stop taking the pill all together due to complications (it can cause swelling in the joints in sever cases). So if a women is feeling down after starting birth control, reminding her to stay strict on the time she takes it, and maybe encourage her to talk to her doctor about a different kind of pill (I believe there are two, estrogen and progestin and ones with only progestin). It can also take as long as 7 weeks for your body to adjust and regulate itself.

Question: Why do microwaves make my fish sticks mushy?
Answer: Microwaves heat food mostly by exciting the water molecules in it. Water can only be heated to 100C before it becomes water vapor. So, microwaves generally don't heat your food beyond that temperature. But, ovens get much hotter and so can really create a crisp texture by evaporating the water out of the food.

Question: Leibnizian monads
Answer: I don't think I can explain it to five year old. 

Here's the higher level explanation: unlike atoms, which are only physical entities, monads are little minds. Leibniz sees the universe as a collection of simple (indivisible) minds. The minds don't perceive each other by casually affecting each other (they are "windowless"), but rather by having all of their thoughts and perceptions sync up. So, if one monad is conscious of something, the others will have a corresponding thought or perception from a different perspective. The physical world is constructed out of the thoughts of all these little monads. Thus, Leibniz is an idealist, someone who believes that fundamental reality is mental.

My best 5 year old explanation: you know how a Lego building block looks different when you look at it from different places. Now most people think the block is made of the little pieces of plastic in the block, but Leibniz thinks it's made of all those different "looks". These "looks" belong to things he calls "monads" and he thinks there isn't anything else in the world besides these monads.

Question: Why do people prefer kiosks over cashiers?
Answer: This is in response to the news about McDonalds yes?  

Mostly for me it's less stressful in a way. I can just flip through the menu without feeling like I'm making anyone wait on me, but that's a very personal and subjective thing.  
What I do notice is that with McDonald's there's usually more kiosks available in a store compared to the old amount of cashiers.

For example, a local Mickey D's here had 4 cashiers. There's now only two and 8 kiosks, and this has reduced the amount of time I need to wait for my turn to order siginificantly.

Question: Why does the Russian goverment still dislike the United States?
Answer: This is just me but the U.S. has a very arrogant position on WW2 and how we saved the day once we joined in the war. In reality Russia suffered millions of more casualties with America being around 500 thousand I think, the Nazis ravished half of Russia and the only reason they didn't completely annihilate them was because of the unfamiliar cold terrain and Russian citizen began to fight back in terrible battles. The battle for Stalingrad being the first I think, I might be wrong. Also most countries governments don't get along with the U.S. because we're an asshole of a country sad to say. Just my personal thoughts and opinions, I'm sure their are plenty of other reasons I don't know of.

Question: Ok, so im still confused about stocks. Explain Li5
Answer: You buy a stock at $5 and then a year later when the company is doing better, the price of the stock increases to $8 and then you sell it! so you make $3!

Question: How did television in North-America evolve to a situation where people are paying 50 dollars a month to watch little 15 minutes segments interrupted by ads.
Answer: That's why cable is dying.  They used to have monopolies, more or less, but that changed with the internet.

Question: If botox is the most lethal substance known to man, how and why do we use it for cosmetic surgery?
Answer: its all about controlled dosage. understanding how long it remains active in the system. Spacing injections both by time and location to stay within safe margins. 

The concentration of Botox injected in patients is around 0.75 ng per 100 units, or roughly 1/5 of the estimated lethal dose in humans. Typical injection of 4 units. 20-30 units per session. 360 units per 36 month period is the recommended limit.

Question: How does purple shampoo work?
Answer: Hair stylist for 10 years here. The purple pigment is not a bleach or a magic chemical or marketing plot. Think about This in terms of light reflection. If the hair has warm undertones, the hair will look yellow/orange depending on the lightness level of the blonde. If you cancel out the warm undertone by using purple pigment, the light reflection will be more of a neutral to cool undertone. This making the hair appear more "white" or neutral.

Question: How does Winamp generate its visualisations?
Answer: With the raw audio data, you will only get the loudness of the audio at a specific point in time (or for a range)

If you analyze/convert the raw data using [Fourier Transform](_URL_0_), you can calculate which frequencies are used and how strong (power) those frequencies are. This can be done in real-time using a method known as Fast Fourier Transform (FFT).

You then use this data to build your visuals, for example low frequencies can be darker colours as opposed to mid to higher frequencies.

I wrote a [web demo](_URL_1_) a while back. Unfortunately, it requires Microsoft Silverlight to work (I was experimenting with Silverlight audio)

Question: Why a doctor would prescribe the name brand for a drug over the generic.
Answer: I am going to go ahead and say that while the other two posted answers are partially correct, they are not the most correct answer.  It is very true that the pharmacists are the ones giving you the drug and you could ask them if a generic is available, but that is not all that goes into it.  

So now we come to the part where I get to show that I actually know something.  Lets talk about tablets.  Any drug that is compressed into tablet for will work and I don't want to throw around any brand names here so lets go with ibuprofen.  In a typical tablet of ibuprofen, there are 200 mg of the actual drug product, called the Active Pharmaceutical Ingredient (API).  This tablet however weighs significantly more than 200 mg.  The reasons for this are many and typically have to do with the manufacturing process.

The manufacturing process that goes into making a tablet is pretty intense.  For a short version you first take all of the extra ingredients, called excipients, plus the API and mix them together.  Then you have to press them into tablets.  Sometimes they are then coated with something.  So why does any of this matter?  Excipients ideally do not affect the drug after you take it but in actuality they can.  There are many types as I alluded to earlier.  A typical drug may have lubricants, binding agents, and then some things that expand upon getting wet to break the tablet in your stomach.  The list of possible excipients is extremely long.  

Again we come to why does this matter?  As you may or may not know, all drugs have to go through approvals by the FDA.  For new drugs (brand name) this means a lot of money needs to be spent.  First some chemists makes the drug, then they begin making it and go through three phases of clinical trials, then submit their data to the FDA for approval.  This is what drives the cost of drugs so high.  Then the patent expires and the generic counterpart can be made.  The interesting thing here is that for the generic drug, the company does not need to provide any efficacy (if the drug actually works) data.  All that they need to prove is that it is absorbed at the same rate as the brand name drug, and that they have the same amount of API.  So then we could ask how could they be different if they are absorbed at the same rate?

As you may have guessed the excipients are what comes in to play here.  Since there are so many different options of excipients to choose from, and one might be cheaper than the other, a generic drug company may pick a different one than the brand name used.  This could have some kind of effect where the drug is not actually effective in doing what you are paying for it to do.  So while it may be cheaper, you may not be getting the same benefit from it.  There are some pretty famous situations where this has happened and the drug was basically a sugar tablet, but I don't have my textbook with me anymore to point you to them.

That was really long winded, but I really like pharmaceuticals and pharma manufacturing.

Question: How does Data capping effect Gamers?
Answer: The data required to play video games is quite small compared to the amount of data needed to stream video.

The bigger issue that data download caps have on gamers is for downloading the digital versions of games and the resulting patches. Games nowadays are approaching the limits of Bluray disks (50 GB). Star Citizen supposedly will have a [100 GB client](_URL_1_).

Even if you do not download the digital version of games, video game patches are getting quite large as well. [The Witcher 3's 1.1 patch came in at 15 GB](_URL_0_). If you have a library of many games, just downloading the patches over the span of a month will push you towards your download cap.

Lastly, in terms of live-streams, you are generally uploading data rather than downloading. I'm not sure if it counts against the download cap but it should be at roughly the same data rate as someone viewing the stream.

Question: Why, after a certain point of being tired, do we switch and get energized instead?
Answer: The longer you stay awake the more stressed your body gets. Now to counter the effects of sleep deprevation your body is flooded with adrennaline to keep you awake. At some point you are practically so flooded with adrennaline that you can't sleep. Thats also why you sometimes can have a racing heartbeat while trying to sleep.

Question: How are skyscrapers or tall buildings demolished?
Answer: 'Twas oft asked here. Ye may enjoy these:


1. [ELI5:What's the end of life plan for skyscrapers? ](_URL_6_)
1. [ELI5: How do big cities demolish old skyscrapers without damaging buildings around it? ](_URL_0_)
1. [ELI5:How will they tear down skyscrapers like the Freedom Tower or Sears tower in a heavily populated area? ](_URL_3_)
1. [ELI5: How do skyscrapers get demolished? ](_URL_2_)
1. [ELI5: What happens when its time to demolish a skyscraper? ](_URL_1_)
1. [ELI5: How would the controlled demolition of an extremely tall skyscraper in a dense urban environment work? ](_URL_5_)
1. [ELI5: How do they take skyscrapers down in new york city ](_URL_4_)

Question: Why do we swallow?
Answer: Saliva is basically a lubricant for your mouth and throat. If you chose to spit your saliva out instead of swallowing it you would be spitting all day everyday. As far as feeling the need to produce saliva or not... it is your body's natural reaction to the situation you find yourself in, much like having to sweat when you over heat.

Question: Why are Uber and Lyft fighting regulations they put in place (i.e. fingerprinting in Houston and Austin)?
Answer: Because all these regulations being proposed increase costs and make it more of a hassle to get drivers and passengers.

Uber and Lyft are mostly successful due to lack of regulation on services like theirs... once regulation starts to catch up they'll be no better off than Taxis and they lose their competitive pricing edge.

So they're going to want to fight any regulations people try to put on them

Question: How come unknown amateur rappers get charged and convicted over "crime" lyrics, but rich famous rappers like 50 Cent, the Game, lil' Wayne and Snoop Dogg don't?
Answer: lol well the mainstream artists you named generally don't really get themselves into trouble. accepted as fiction.

Question: Why do we dress the way we dress?
Answer: Culturally relative aesthetics combined with personal preference. People tend to dress in a way that they feel makes them look good or attractive or simply dress for physical comfort.

Question: bone marrow transplants
Answer: You kill all of the bone marrow that someone has with a combination of drugs and/or drugs and radiation. You can in some cases be your own donor, and in other cases a family member or lucky match can donate. In either case after the original marrow has totally died (leaving you very vulnerable to infection, so you're kept isolated) it's replaced, and grows to function as your bone marrow.

Question: Why can't people withdraw their money from a bank that goes bankrupt? Specifically those regular savings accounts? That supposedly have no such risk as it's a saving, not an investment.
Answer: Any money you put into a bank they use to lend to others. If they go bankrupt then they have absolutely nothing left and your money is gone

Question: overtime
Answer: Someone pays you to work hours that you wouldn’t normally work?

Question: Reverse Entropy
Answer: imagine you have a jar of marbles that you tip over. The marbles all go out in different directions, ricochet off of eachother, and settle. Now, you must put them back how they were before. How? That's impossible, that's so much data to somehow learn, which way each marble went and what it hit and how at what angle and so on to reach it's final resting spot.

imagine if you could look through time, though. You'd see the path that every single marble took and the way they scattered would look very apparent to you, like a tree with branches. You could easily tell how they got there and how to reverse it. 

Reverse entropy is only possible by timetravel, but we cannot do that. As time advances, the past is braided, so to speak, into one singular universe, the universe we at this very moment are at the head of. In the future there's infinite possibilities but as we travel through the fourth dimension, we collapse/destroy all those universes into the one we right now are witnessing. The past is beyond our reach, and the future doesn't exist yet, or rather it exists in every infinite way. So we're kinda stuck in the present, just like how a 3D apple passing through a 2D world would only exist to the 2D world as that slice of 2D it is at that current time, we're that apple, and time is what we're passing through, and we can only experience the world as it is at this very moment we are advancing through it. And as such, it's not possible for us to go back and look how the marbles fell and scattered... But the secret to reversing entropy might hold the way to look back in time, and vice versa. Just like in that 2D world they have no concept of ALL of the apple in one physical 3D existence, only slices of it. They might have the cognition to imagine a 3D apple, just like how we humans have memory and forethought of the past and future, but it's really just a makeshift bandaid solution. 

It's all very theoretical stuff.

Question: Why do we only start to see fog yards away from where we are standing and not at our feet?
Answer: If fog is very very thick, you can see it at your feet. The nature of fog is that you can see through some of it but not all of it (that is, some but not all light passes through). So, when you don't see it at your feet, it's because you're seeing *through* the stuff that is at your feet. You *can* see it farther away because you've looked through enough of it to notice the effect.

Basically, fog scatters light. If it's not super thick, you must look through a few yards of it to notice that the light is being scattered.

Either that or it's made of spirits who can't stand to be in contact with living beings so they stay away from you.

Question: How do waterfalls have a continuous stream of water?
Answer: This is true only for some waterfalls. The permanent waterfalls we normally think of are usually located in lower stream of areas which receive enough rainfall or snow year after year. The area is called "drainage basin" at means all the water from this area eventually flows into the same place, the same river. This area can be huge. For example the drainage area of the Mississippi river is [huge](_URL_0_). With the water for the river coming from a large area, generally the local weather patterns balance each other in the way that the total amount of water in the river stays within a certain limit. So in these cases the question is very much the same as how do rivers have a continuous stream of water.

However there are a lot of waterfalls which dry up during dry season and again are waterfalls during monsoon season. So this really depends on the climate. And there are a lot of temporal waterfalls that exist only for a short while. For example [these impressive waterfalls](_URL_1_) at The Grand Canyon are only temporary, as they do not get a continuous stream of water.

Question: Latency in video games, why is there lag?
Answer: This is simplified, so excuse me if I miss a few things or get some steps out of order.

Say you're in an FPS game.  You see a guy and decide to shoot at him.  You click your mouse to fire.

Your computer picks up this signal from the mouse and translates it to a click.  This click is then processed by the game application as "fire."  The game calculates your current position, your weapon, what properties it has assigned to the ballistics, and then fires the gun.  The game encapsulates this information into a stream of network packets and sends it off to a server somewhere which is hosting the game.  Along the way it travels through routers, modems, switches, and all sorts of tech to get to the final server.

The server picks up these packets and analyzes them, processing that you pressed "fire."  It then takes the trajectory of the bullet and matches it against where other players are in the game, and calculates whether you hit them or not.  It deducts that health value from the player you hit (congrats!), updates their relative position, and sends all of this information (locations and health) back to your PC.  The packets go through the same series of network stuff back to your PC.

Your PC takes these packets, sends them to the game application which analyzes them, and processes that click of your mouse to fire.

All of the above takes time - time that translates into a delay between when you pressed fire and got the result.

BONUS QUESTION: Sure.  Faster computers, faster tech, light computing, etc.  But there will always be *some* delay no matter what.

Question: Why do 15 fps video clips looks sped up and 60 fps clips look like they're slowed down?
Answer: That happens when the video player plays doesn't adjust for the frame rate of the recording device. For example, your TV plays at 30fps, but the source material is recorded at 60fps. Now if you want to watch your video at a "normal" speed, every other frame from the source material has to be dumped so you end up seeing 30fps. However, if the video player doesn't actually dump the frames and just plays them at 30fps, then it takes twice as long to get through the frames, thus your video becomes slowed down. This is how your slo-mo videos are generated.

If you record at a lower frame rate, then the video player has to duplicate frames instead.

Question: if two different phones/tablets/computers are running the exact same OS, how is it possible that one device can experience a bug/glitch but not the other device when performing the exact same task?
Answer: 1:  A mechanical defect in the device.  This could be something as large as a bad piece of solder on a board to as small as an actual defect in a chip, or anything in between.

2:  Random cosmic ray strike.  High energy particles from space can hit sensitive electronics and "flip" a bit from a 1 to a 0 or vice versa, changing the software encoded by that bit.

3:  User error.  Causes too numerous to enumerate.

4:  Corruption of data.  During the process of downloading and installing the software an error was introduced which was not detected by the error-checking schemes.  Could have been caused by random transient currents in the wires, by errors or misconfigurations of devices in the network, etc.

Question: Why does drinking alcohol usually make you wake up unusually early the next morning?
Answer: This is a great question I would love to know the answer to. Its not thirst, or dehydration for me. Its waking up 4 or 5 hours after falling asleep and ready to start the whole day. Cant fall back asleep. And then, 3 hours later I feel like absolute shit.

Question: How do scientists determine how much fat, proteins, and carbohydrates there is in any product?
Answer: I'm sure you won't be surprised to learn that this is determined by many analytical chemistry methods. I'll give a few examples, though you can check out [this page](_URL_2_ 7.5) for more detailed information. 

**Fat**: Fatty acids are first extracted from a substance by solubilization in an [organic solvent](_URL_1_), then either chemically modified with a tag that enables them to be quantified in a [colorimetric assay](_URL_4_), or individually identified and quantified by [gas chromatography](_URL_5_).

**Proteins**: An early and still-used approach is the Kjeldahl method, first described in the late 19th century. First the sample is digested in sulfuric acid using CuSO4/TiO2 catalysts, which frees the nitrogen contained in peptide bonds (and some amino acid residues) and converts it to ammonia (NH3). The ammonia is distilled into a trapping solution, [titrated](_URL_0_), and its concentration is determined by reference to a standard solution. 

A mixture of pure proteins is known to contain about 16% nitrogen, so total protein is calculated from the measured nitrogen by multiplying by a conversion factor of 100/16 = 6.25.

**Sugars:** Enzymatic methods predominated historically. For example, H2O2 is produced by the oxidation of glucose by the enzyme glucose oxidase. By adding some additional reagents, this can be quantified by spectrophometry, though it obviously only works for glucose. For more complex mixtures of sugars, gas-liquid chromatography (GLC) or [high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)](_URL_3_) is used.

Question: Why can't cellular radio waves be divided for unlimited data carrying?
Answer: The narrower the channel, the less information you can send down it reliably.  Using your freeway example, you could take a 3 lane highway and give yourself 24 bike lanes but nobody'd be getting anywhere very quickly.

Question: Why can't/shouldn't we go back to the gold standard?
Answer: Gold is a luxury item.  Only 10% of gold is used for manufacturing or technical purposes, the rest is used in vanity goods like jewelry or hoarded as an investment.  Therefor, its value is perceived rather than practical, and as such the price is subject to whims.  (See: gold rising to insane levels as people fear an economic meltdown.)  By basing your currency on the stability of your government rather than a finite resource, you open up a lot more flexibility in terms of  monetary policy.  Also, since governments generally move slow and avoid drastic measures, the value of the currency remains relatively stable over long periods of time, which commodities like gold and oil do not.

Short version: Businesses like it when the value of a dollar is stable.  It's a lot harder to maintain stability if your currency is tied to a finite resource.

Question: What is the Raspberry Pi? How can a computer cost 5$ while mainstream computers can cost up to 2000$?
Answer: The Raspberry Pi is a very small, lower power, lower complexity computer. Because they have sold, and will continue to sell many, they can afford to get parts at bulk pricing. The RPi $5 board is also so much smaller and stripped back compared to the ones that cost a few times more than that.

There's also the fact that it doesn't have a keyboard, mouse, monitor, or any of the other trappings that one conventionally associates with the word "computer". It's like you're buying a very stripped motherboard. Price a motherboard similar to the one in a $500 desktop and see how much it costs.

Also, no OS is included. You also have to provide a lot more work to get the thing to even work. A $500 HP works out of the box with little setup or wiring. A $5 RPi requires you to wire a bunch of stuff to it, buy an enclosure, a microSD card, and spend time setting up an OS to work on it.

Question: Why is the Tracey Morgan car accident getting a federal investigation?
Answer: That National Transportation Safety Board regularly assists state authorities with highway accident investigations.  This is usually in the form of technical assistance, and is very different from if an agency like the FBI got involved.

Question: How are 300 calories in a donut different than 300 calories in a burger?
Answer: In terms of caloric content, they are the same, but the tasks your body accomplishes with the two are very different.

Your body uses proteins to construct new cells. Think of proteins as the parts of the engine inside your car. The proteins from that burger get deconstructed and reconstituted as proteins inside your cells. That process takes energy. Having an engine isn't enough to make a car run. Enter carbohydrates. If proteins are the parts of your engine, then carbs are your gasoline. They provide the energy (in the form of a molecule called ATP) for your proteins to work.

Your body has a certain metabolic requirement based on your body's content, i.e. How muscular, how tall, how active you are, etc. When you eat food, the proteins are put to work and the sugar/carbs power everything. Your body is extra smart and does something the car can't - after all it evolved in a calorie-poor world - so it takes all the leftover carbs that are "excess" to what is required by your body at that time and converts them into fat for storage. That fat can then be accessed for energy if you haven't eaten in a while or if you're using more energy than you have carbs to supply.

Now imagine a situation in which you eat something that is more or less entirely carbs like said donut. With little in the way of protein for your body to use, you'll have a temporary bump in sugar that isn't supplying energy for anything useful, so what happens to it? Fat.

With the burger, instead, you have nutrients that require metabolism that the carbs can be used for.

So why, then, do they appear to have equal value as conveyed by their calorie count? Because a calorie is a unit of energy, aka it's capacity to enact a change or apply a force to something. Through various complex mechanisms (of course), your body can interconvert some proteins and sugars and turn them into energy, but this process is much less efficient and much less straightforward than just getting said nutrients from your diet. So, while the caloric content of the burger and donut may be equal, the ramifications for your body are quite different. One permits some degree of healthy function where the other is much less able to.

Fun fact: we measure calories using a tool called a calorimeter... a box in which we place the burger, burn it with fire, and measure how much oxygen got used up by the burning burger to tell us how much energy was used in the flames. Thus, we have measured the burger's calorie content.

Source: am doctor**




**in 5 months

Question: How do insects survive winter? How does the common housefly live through months of freezing to come back next year?
Answer: There are micro climates around. By this I mean that there will be little pockets around where they can survive. Think of a  large wholesale fruit market where it is never allowed to freeze. Flies can survive there. There are also many other places, kitchens, trash collection points inside buildings, and other places where they can survive.

Besides, they fly, they can fly North, and reproduce quickly. Monarch butterflies migrate for thousands of miles each year. Flies can too.

Certain species cannot live in the North. Fire ants cannot move further North. They cannot survive the winter. So even though hay is brought North from Fire ant country they do not establish colonies. I skipped transportation of flies in trucks and cars.

The Formosan termite also cannot move North.

Question: How do bats, whales, dolphins, etc. differentiate their echolocation clicks from others?
Answer: Mostly pitch.  While they'll all be within a particular range, each bat varies its own voice by a tiny fraction and listens for that particular pitch.  Bat voices can be between 40ish to 120ish thousand Hz, which gives a huge range for an individual to pick from.

[Some quick research](_URL_0_) reveals other tricks.  For example, *basically* the bat will make a much weaker sound mixed with the harmonic of the call.  No bat, not even itself, will hear that sound as it reflects back, but the bat that makes the call will hear it in the same way you hear your own voice inside your skull.  Then, its brain knows which part of the harmonic is missing, so if it hears others calling in the same harmonic, but with that part still there, the bat knows that wasn't his call.  Instead, he specifically listens for the same harmonic but missing that key part that was too soft to hear.

Whales use very very *low* pitches, far lower than any other animal is looking for.  And whales are few enough and far apart enough that each one usually has a distinct voice.

Dolphins use similar tricks, as well as listening for the particular pattern of clicks, almost using unique "words" to echolocate and only listening for the "word" they used.

It's worth noting that a lot of this processing happens unconsciously in their brains.  A bat doesn't just hear all the noise and pick out his own voice, his brain literally filters every other bat voice out so it's like he can't even hear them.

Question: How is salt "Kosher"?
Answer: It's not *Kosher* salt, it's Kosher*ing* salt, i.e. salt used for Koshering. The salt is used for draining the blood out of meat, and the larger grain size makes it better suitable for the job than ordinary table salt.

Question: What is the relationship between resolution (pixels) and the dimensions of a printed photo?
Answer: The measurement you are looking for is dots-per-inch, or DPI.

Let's use some easy numbers...

Imagine you had a picture that was 1,000 x 1,000 pixels. That picture would actually contain 1 million pixels, or what modern marketing called 1 megapixel.

If you tried to print it 10" x 10", you would have 100 dots per inch (1,000 dots / 10 inches = 100 dots per inch). On the other hand, if you tried printing a 5" x 5" print, you would have 200 dots per inch and the picture would look much clearer.

Ideally, you want at least 300 dots per inch for quality prints.

Since real images are rarely square, you have to choose one dimension to work with, usually the width.

A 12-megapixel image is usually 4368 (wide) by 2912 (height) pixels. 

So, if you want to print a 4x6, you end up with

4368 / 6 = 728 DPI (measured by width)

That is about double the quality that you actually need to print.

To answer your question, you can work the other way, too, with some algrbra. If 300 DPI is acceptable to you:

4368 / x = 300 DPI

300x = 4368

x = 14.5" 

And since y = 2/3 x, y = 9.7"

So, maintaining a minimum of 300 DPI, the biggest picture you could print is 14.5" x 9.7"

You could print it larger with lower quality, and the smaller you print it, the better it would look. On the other hand, if your printer prints at 300 or 360 DPI maximum, having a picture with more detail will not help.

That turned into a long answer! Hope it helps...

Question: Will an antenna produce visible light?
Answer: If you pump enough energy into that antenna, assuming its metal, it will produce red then orange then yellow visible light.

Question: Why a wheel turning at high speed appears to be turning the other way round?
Answer: If you take a basic wall clock and watch the minute hand, it moves very slowly, doing one rotation every 60 minutes. However, if you take a camera, and leave it to take a picture of the clock every hour, and watch those pictures like a movie, you'll think it doesn't move at all.

Now take that camera and make it take a picture every 61 minutes. Every picture it takes, the minute hand will have an extra minute to move, so will have gone slightly around the clock.

Do it the other way around, and take a picture every 59 minutes. Even though it has moved forward, it looks like it has only moved back a little bit.

Basically a similar thing is happening between your eye and the wheel at a significantly faster rate. Your eye is a bit trickier than just taking a photo on a regular basis, but the basic principles here are more or less the same.

Question: Homomorphic encryption. What is it and what is it not?
Answer: Basically it's an encryption scheme where you can perform operations on the encrypted data and get a result that when decrypted using the same method as decrypting the source data will result in the same output as if those operations had been performed on the original unencrypted data.

This means that encrypted data can be given to an untrusted party to be processed without them being aware of what the data they're processing is. This is in contrast to conventional schemes where the party doing the processing needs to have an unencrypted copy of the data, inherently reducing the security of the whole process.

Question: The differences between aspirin, ibuprofen, and acetaminophen
Answer: aspirin: blood thinner. this is why it's effective for heart disease.

ibuprofin: anti-inflammatory. that's why it's effective for swollen things.

tylenol: general pain killer. that's why it's better for generic/non-specific pain.

that's about as simple as i can make it.

Question: In jobs that have a lot of initial training investment, and then a subsequent minimum length contract (for example, most military careers), what happens if, after training, a person just isn't good enough, or doesn't put in enough effort?
Answer: They cut their losses usually and kick your ass to the curb. Or in some cases you may  leave one training and be moved to a lower job or a different job and trained for that job instead.

Obviously its not uncommon for people to perform poorly at a specific job and be moved to a different one, in any industry or job.   It's not also uncommon for people to fail to meet standards and be fired.

Your contract (probably) has a variety of clauses about meeting minimum requirements of the position, if you fail to do that, they can get rid of you or move you

Question: How does a fly keep buzzing around my head when I'm traveling at 30 knots in a boat?
Answer: The air around you is also travelling at 30 knots.

Question: What is the purpose behind the common "crescent" shaped ice cube?
Answer: Crescent-shaped ice cubes are easy for a machine to remove from the tray. After they're done freezing, a mechanical arm swings in a circle and pushes them out of the tray. Cube-shaped trays are a bit harder to automatically remove the ice from them.

Question: Are current microwaves ovens much different than the ones from the 80s?
Answer: A little more robust and elegant in their electrical design, but they work the same way. A lot of components in things like microwaves get switched out over time as we become more and more capable of doing things digitally and don't have to rely on analog. This results in better performance, more even heating in this case, and more energy efficiency, but essentially, no. It's the same thing. 

edit: phrasing

Question: If you have a tattoo and the layer off skin came off where it was, would the tatoo be removed?
Answer: if the wound is deep enough yes. [There was a time when tattoos were removed by implanting an inflatable bag under the skin next to the tattoo and gradually filling it with saline over a period of weeks expanding the tissue](_URL_0_). When there was sufficient tissue the implant would be removed and the tattoo excised then the [extra tissue](_URL_1_) would be moved over and sutured in the place of the tattoo.

Question: The spice must flow
Answer: I think a big part of it is that before refrigerators and other methods of food preservation were developed, people often ate food that was less than fresh or just straight up spoiled. Spices and cooking techniques make bad food more palatable.

Question: Why dont companies like Sony/Microsoft add backwards compatibility for their consoles?
Answer: It's more than 'adding the code', it's adding *a lot* of code. The new consoles have completely different hardware that basically makes them incompatible with running previous generation games. Don't think of this as xbone trying to run xbox360, think of this as PC trying to running xbox360 and you've got the same obstacles. A whole emulation software would need to be developed and implemented into the console, which would take up space, time, and money.

The first PS2 was able to be backwards compatible because the literally shoved a PS1 into the console. Later they were able to develop an emulator program for it. The Xbox360 has emulation programs for classic xbox titles as well (or the titles themselves were ported (translated) into a format the 360 could understand), and even then it wasn't 100% perfect. And the emulation program gets harder and more complicated because the games being used are complex.

And what would all that money and time yield for either company? Its not exactly a selling point, and if you want to use the older games, then you can buy the older consoles to do so. If anything, adding backwards compatibility will hurt sales of the older units (as people will simply refrain from buying one and wait until the next gen console came to the market).

TL;DR - backwards compatibility takes time and money that neither company seems interested in investing.

Question: Why do we have 10 fingers and not 8?
Answer: Because we evolved from fish that had 5 bones in their fins. All vertebrates follow the same pattern - 1 bone, 2 bones, lots of bones. As to why the fish had 5 fin-bones, it was probably simply how it evolved - the optimal number of fin-bones to maintain the fin structure.

Question: What is Rick Perry being indicted for?
Answer: You know how a school bully might threaten to beat you up if you don't give him your lunch money? Governor Perry is accused of doing sort of the same thing by threatening to not give a woman's department money if she didn't resign from office.

Since it was the governor doing it, he should know better. This would be the same as your school principal demanding that you give him your lunch money or he'll make sure you fail all your classes. School districts don't like it when principals do that, and grand juries don't like it when governors do that.

Question: If the months are based on the phases of the moon why are some months longer than others?
Answer: Because the number of days it takes to go from 'full moon' to 'full moon' doesn't evenly match up with the time it takes to go from 'lowest sunrise' to 'lowest sunrise'.

And that's OK.

Why February?  Because the calendar used to start in the spring, and February used to be 'the last month of the year'.  So any days which needed to be added or subtracted, would come from there.

That way, the spring equinox (first day of spring, according to the sun's path) would always be on the same day each year.

Question: How do ships stay afloat even when carrying thousands of tons of cargo?
Answer: By displacing more tons of water than the ship+cargo weighs.  That's why they have to be so strong, to keep enough water out.

Question: What are BDSM relationships?
Answer: BDSM is a compound acronym. It stands for Bondage and Discipline, Dominance and Submission, Sadism and Masochism. 

On the submissive end, you have people that gain satisfaction from being hurt, punished, being physically bound, and/or being ordered around. 

On the dominant end, you have people that gain satisfaction from hurting, punishing, binding and giving orders. 

It sounds all kind of abusive, but (done properly) in all honesty it's anything but. 

Basically, it's the emotional equivalent of Tyler Durden. 

Telling your nagging-nelly hindbrain and your delicate-flower sense of social mores to shut the fuck up, and laughing at their impotent outrage. 

Aww, poor little hypothalamus. Diddums. Someone's hitting me? Yeah, no shit. Because I'm *letting* them hit me. It hurts? Well duh. I'm going to keep letting them, too, and there's not a damn thing you can do about it. You can't make me afraid, you can't put me in distress; I chose for this to happen, and you have no power. Neener fucking neener, asshole. 

The sheer unadulterated *joy* that bubbles up when you realize you can just let go of fear and distress is downright amazing. It's like being on a  pants-shittingly terrifying rollercoaster, and making that little internal mental jump that flips the entire experience into WOOOOOOOO-HOOOOOOO! 

And on top of that, the emotional intimacy that follows catharsis and the dropping of all those barriers is without parallel. 

I can' tell you a lot about the Dom side, because I don't swing that way - but the general outlines aren't hard to sketch out. 

A BDSM relationship, then, is just one where both partners live (to whatever degree) a lifestyle that mutually scratches this itch. It can range from getting a bit rough in the bedroom, to agreeing to be led by the other partner, to flat-out living as a collared slave - there's a very wide spectrum, and it's different for everyone.

Question: popular apps terms and conditions
Answer: This website is great at breaking down what you need to know

_URL_0_

Question: Why have bones evolved to heal so slowly, or why do they heal at all? Wouldn't any animal with a broken bone likely die in the wild of something before the bone was healed?
Answer: Evolution is still limited by physics and chemistry, and each feature is a balancing act with a million other advantages and disadvantages. This is sort of like asking:

Why has skin evolved to be so soft and easy to cut, resulting in blood leaking out of the body? Wouldn't any animal with cut skin likely bleed to death and die in the wild?

Question: how is it that (according to my plant bio textbook) glucose and fructose have identical molecular formulas? Isn't the purpose if molecular formulas to be unique identifiers?
Answer: Just like you can assemble Legos into any number of shapes, molecules can also be put together differently. So while both glucose and fructose have the same number of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms, the molecules are assembled differently and thus they are different chemicals.

Question: Why is it easier to balance on a bike when you're going faster?
Answer: Smaller corrections are needed to maintain the center of balance.  [Here](_URL_0_ ) is a really interesting thread on the interactions between wheel gyro effect and front fork angle which explains a lot of the mechanics of balancing a bike.

Question: why are organizations trying to send people to live on mars and not on closer places like the moon?
Answer: Mars has atmosphere and accessible (but frozen) water and soil that could be conditioned to grow crops with a lot of work and is a place a person could live with some work. the moon has vacuum and radiation and micrometeorites and horrible staticy sandpaper for ground.

Question: Why are people preoccupied with order and detail called "anal" or "anal retentive".
Answer: Because he hypothesized that issues during this developmental stage (when a child is learning to control toilet functions, such as bowel movements) would carry over into adulthood, manifested as an obsession over detail and exerting inordinate control over ones environment.

Question: How do animals look into they eyes of other animals instinctively?
Answer: I can't speak for every animal, but for humans, it's a matter of "top down processing", and the fact that only other animals have faces and/or eyes.  And sometimes animals - and humans - do confuse other markings for eyes.



To a baby human, recognizing a face is very important.  Take a piece of paper, draw two dots on it and show it to a baby - chances are, they'll smile at it.  Looking directly at a caretaker's face gets the biggest response from that caretaker.  To a baby, eyes equal a face, and a face equals getting fed/changed/protected and so on.


Eyes are positioned in such a way that they're able to get a good look around, usually on an animals head, usually where others can see them too.  Far as I know, all mammals at least have one head each.  Find the head, you know it's an animal.  Find the eyes and you know where it's facing.


Only other animals have eyes.  Plants don't.  Plants are unlikely to run away or attack you.  Animals might do either.  Finding a set of eyes on something means it's automatically classified as an animal by the brain.  Babyhood has already wired us to detect eyes and this continues in adulthood.


However the brain can be fooled.  Eye-like markings on insects, weird bark on trees, patterns in the clouds and so on can be mistaken by the brain for a face.  If the brain gets a confusing image, it tries to pair it with something it already knows.  Faces are very important to it.  If the thing appears to have eyes - even if they aren't real ones - the brain considers it a face.  This can be referred to as "top down processing".  Animals do this too.


As eyes are considered required for a face, suddenly seeing the eyes of a tiger hiding in a bush is leg-lockingly terrifying.  Locking eyes with another animal forces you to think ABOUT that creature.  Is it a threat?  A friend?  It can reassure, force you to flee, or lock you in place with terror.  The eyes are also very expressive on many animals.  Is the animal mad?  Content?  Finding the eyes may help you sort that out.


In short, we're wired to look for eyes.  Sometimes we mistake things for eyes that really aren't.   Animals do the same for the same reasons.

Question: What happens when you melt a magnet.
Answer: LI5: The magnet will stop behaving magnetically once it hits a certain temperature (sort of). Then it'll simply behave like a piece of metal and melt

LI20: Let me know if there is interests, not typing an explanation for the hell of it, though it's not extremely complicated.

Question: How people learn to hack.
Answer: You've played video games right? Ever played a video game so much you know it backwards and forwards and know every little niche here and there and have all the maps memorized? People who know how to break into other computer systems are exactly like that but with operating systems. When you know a video game so well as I explained you learn little tricks, loop holes, and bugs. You learn how to use the game in a way that the developers didn't intend and or foresee. You use this in the game to your advantage to get more kills or win. 

People learn computer systems in the same way you learn the game, they play with it ... a lot. They learn the programming language it was built on and how all the protocols it uses work, like tcp/ip. They create their own programs, or use someone elses (script kiddies), to interact with the system and manipulate it or to take advantage of a loophole/bug. 

Quick example, ever heard of a sql injection? See the search reddit form to the right? Generally you would enter the term you want to search for and the polite codes goes off to the database and runs some commands and searches for entries matching what you entered and returns the result. On some unpatched, unproperly setup systems you can enter sql code (the database software commands) into the field and instead of doing what it was intended the database will instead run those commands which could be hostile, such as returning password tables. 

That was a simple example, but it's all about understanding the system so well you can recognize loopholes and how to circumvent rules.

Question: How music is stored on CD's and then played back
Answer: like ur a pretty smart 5yo:

a recording machine listens to the music as it's being played, and turns it into numbers. it records thousands of different numbers every second to represent the changing volume of the music.

these numbers are written down very small on a CD, in a spiral that goes around and around and from the inside of the CD near the hole to the outside edge. your CD player reads the numbers that are written on the disk, and using a speaker it pushes air around to those places at those times. the speaker makes a similar vibration like the original sound, and the vibrating air reaches your ear and sounds like music!

Question: Why do people support Bruce* Jenner and despise Rachel Dolezal?
Answer: Please search.  You'll find the answer [here](_URL_1_) and [here](_URL_0_ )

Question: Why can't current be defined as co-directional with the flow of electrons?
Answer: Because current is the flow of charge, not electrons. The particles that allow for the flow of charge are called "charge carriers" and electrons happen to have a negative charge, so current flows in the opposite direction of electrons. 

Electrons aren't the only charge carriers. In semiconductors for example, you have both free electrons and places for electrons to go (called "holes") which can act as charge carriers. In your body, positively charged potassium ions act as charge carriers. 

Essentially electric current is defined without caring about what carries the charge, just the direction the charge moves.

Question: Why can the aging process of alcoholic beverages not be artificially sped up or completely skipped?
Answer: Often alcoholic beverages are aged in wooden barrels. During the aging, the beverage is infused with flavour from the wood of the barrel. While theoretically it would be possible to artificially add those flavours, it is difficult to know exactly what and how much to add since those flavours are very subtle and depend on a lot of things, including the wood used, the specific beverage and the time it is aged for. There is also little incentive to do so, as often aged beverages are enthusiast products, and enthusiasts usually aren't very appreciative of artificial flavours. The long aged products are a status symbol as well, and skipping the aging process would diminish their value and prestige as a status symbol.

Question: How does the heart send more blood to one area when needed if all the veins are one "circle" system?
Answer: The heart pumps faster to send  blood faster during these times, but the vessels dilating and contracting are what determines where the "more" blood goes (really just a higher volume to one area and lower volumes everywhere else, not actually more). This is done by nerve signals from the area that needs it to the brain telling the brain (autonomic nervous system) "hey we need more blood here stat!" Heart pumps faster, vessels dilate in the area you need the blood and contract elsewhere. Voila! More blood.

Question: how come an HD Youtube video can load in a reasonable amount of time but a GIF an exceptionally long time?
Answer: GIF was never meant for video and people that post them don't optimize them so they are huge and slow.

Question: Why can a human limb not sense its own weight?
Answer: You can feel its weight. However you just get used to it after years. 

Think about it externally: if you never wear a watch, and then you put on a big heavy one your arm feels heavy because of that extra weight.
Now let's say you wear that watch every day. You even sleep and shower in it. Eventually, wearing the watch feels normal and your arm no longer feels like it is moving weight. 
Now the watch breaks and you have to leave it at a repair shop for a few days. Your arm suddenly feels much lighter and naked.

Question: Why do some working Americans believe their money they earn goes to welfare/foodstamps/govt assistance?
Answer: Because it does. All taxes go into the general fund and are distributed from there so on the ELI5 level anybody who pays taxes, pays a percentage of everything the government pays out as the government does not make its own money.

Question: How exactly does a nail keep two wooden planks together?
Answer: Friction. The nail breaks the wood fivers apart causing mini sized splintery pieces around the nail that when they try to return to their original position, grip onto the nail tightly.

Question: How did the first person with HIV/AIDS become infected?
Answer: This is impossible to accurately answer because obviously nobody can be 100% certain. But the most likely vector would be from somebody coming into contact with infected monkey blood, which then entered that person's bloodstream, presumably through a pre-existing cut or abrasion.

Many species of monkeys and apes are common food animals in parts of Africa, so it's highly likely that people would be regularly encountering monkey blood. Although HIV doesn't live for long once its host dies, if a freshly-slaughtered monkey bled onto a human being, that human could then become infected with the virus.

Question: China just lost about 3.2$ trillion in the last three weeks, where did all that money go?
Answer: There is no "first law of thermodynamics" for wealth. Wealth can certainly be created and can certainly be destroyed. The value lost in the chinese equity markets isn't "found" by someone else. The value of all those companies has decreased, or rather, markets realized that they were being overvalued and responded. It is bad for all of us (except for any who may have correctly gauged when this crash was coming and gotten out of the market at a fortuitous time).

Question: My popcorn is listed as 240 calories unpopped, 220 calories popped. Where do those 20 calories go?
Answer: Some of the moisture, oils, and husk escape when the kernels pop. Not eating the husk or oils would reduce the calories vs the unpopped kernels since part of them is basically missing.

Question: How come many people think cilantro has no taste or tastes good, but a lot of people think cilantro has an extremely strong and disgusting taste?
Answer: There's actually a genetic mutation that causes some people to taste cilantro as soapy.

_URL_0_

Question: How do hypodermic needles penetrate your skin without punching out a "core" of flesh?
Answer: They are cut on a slant, so they slice a slit instead of cutting a core.

Question: What is the difference between the estimated 120,000 libraries in the US and Google making all books freely available online in their entirety?
Answer: Libraries own, and allow use of, only one copy of a book at a time. They have the right to do this because they physically own one copy of the book, which is the right to use one copy of the book. Because objects.

Google also owns only one copy of each book, but is making snippets available to possibly thousands of people simultaneously. The argument, in its simplest form, is that this is copying the book, which is illegal.

Question: Describe Hinduism and its principles to me.
Answer: This is a large subject to which I cannot entirely do justice, but I will mention some of the more distinguishing features of Hinduism.  Hinduism is a very ancient, polytheistic religion having a large number of deities.  There are 3 particularly important dieties, Brahma the Creator, Vishnu the Preserver, and Shiva the Destroyer.  All other deities are aspects of those 3.  One curious aspect of Hinduism is that not only do human beings live many life times, dying and then being reincarnated, but so do the gods; new incarnations of deities are known as avatars.    A central concept of Hinduism is that people accrue a spiritual characteristic known as karma, by virtue of the good or bad things that they do.  People with good karma will consequently be reincarnated in a more favorable circumstance (such as, in a wealthier family) than in their present life, while people with bad karma will be punished by being reincarnated in worse circumstance, which can go to the extreme of being reincarnated as an animal rather than as a person.  This concept is also the basis of the caste system.  High caste people are thought to deserve their special privileges because it is their good karma which caused them to be born into a high caste family, while people of low caste deserve their less privileged existence because that is their karma.  It is a very clever justification for a very abusive social practice, and it can be compared to the argument made by European monarchs, that they rule by divine right.  Obvious, if God did not want them to be monarchs, they wouldn't be, so therefore they must be entitled to their lives of absolute power and privilege.

Question: Why is creating a male contraceptive pill so challenging?
Answer: I literally heard about this on the radio yesterday so i may be able to help. 

A male one is in development currently in Australia (I think) and has had effective trials on mice in labs showing that it is able to be effective with no major (maybe any) side effects. 

The difficulty is that a male pill has to stop every single sperm, which males produce millions of, from entering the female's egg, if one gets through, the pill can be redundant, however, a female contraceptive needs to simply stop one egg. 

So its much easier to stop one egg then millions of sperm through a pill, which is why the female pill has been around since the 60s while the male one is still being developed.

Additionally, there is a lot of negative feedback from consumers on it currently.

Question: NASA's new EM Drive, why is it significant, and does it break the laws of physics?
Answer: Basically it is a container that bounces around electromagnetic waves, which generates movement. This requires no fuel, and seemingly doesn't make sense.


Normally when you have an engine/drive, you will have some sort of waste product or emission. Think of a rocket engine, you have flames shooting out of the back. The stuff being blown out is what makes it move. Remember that any force has an equal and opposite reaction, which is why the rocket moves. The key thing about the EM drive there is no measurable stuff coming out of it.


Does it break the laws of physics? No. If it broke the laws of physics it wouldn't work. This just proves that our current understanding of either the EM drive or our understanding of physics is wrong.

Question: Why do crickets get quiet around humans, considering we aren't one of their predators?
Answer: When a lumbering monstrosity twenty thousand times your size clomps past, you may want to hush for a second and let the beast pass without trouble.

Sure a human is unlikely to stoop down and eat a cricket these days, but that's not true for all animals.  Laying low while unfathomably bigger animals pass is a good survival strategy that most flightless insects have adopted.

Question: }What is it that causes hair to turn gray?
Answer: The reason is that, the older you get, more hydrogen peroxide (a strong bleach) builds up in your body because it can't break it down that fast anymore.

The hydrogen peroxide, in turn, destroys an enzyme that builds up melanine, the chemical compound that colors your hair, skin etc. 

Your body hair does not grow as fast as head hair does, which might be the reason for head hair to lose color faster.

Question: Why you only get caught for illegally downloading some things, but not others?
Answer: Pure luck. You just happened to be downloading the file at a time when the copyright police (basically a bunch of people at the big media companies) were tracking you.

Question: why do we put our hands over our mouth when we eat something hot? [psychology]
Answer: Because we tend to open our mouths to breathe when we eat something hot, and we're already conditioned to cover our open mouths (yawning, etc).

Question: Why don't humans go into heat?
Answer: Most animals have evolved this behavior so that their young one's growth coincides with the seasonal availability of food/resources. This also creates a cycle of birth and deaths that overlap so that the young can grow. This seasonal cycle is what we call being in heat. 

Humans don't have to because we are smart and make use of what we can to survive. So sex is more recreational than utilitarian.

Question: How exactly does an acne cream like 'Neutrogena On the Spot' work to help heal and diminish pimples and what does it really do?
Answer: There are two types of medications used in these.

Benzoyl peroxide.  This helps dry out junk clogging the pore so that the environment inside the pore is less awesome for bacteria because it lets in oxygen.  BP also dries up everything not pore, making your face a wasteland of dead skin chunks and redness that *may for some people* make skin more prone to further infection.  Go with lowest %.

Salicylic acid.  Breaks down the bonds that hold gunk over the pores, making the outer 'shell' of the pimple separate so oxygen can get in and make the pore less awesome for bacteria.  Helps reduce fluid and swelling - so the size of the pimple may go down.  A dab on the spot overnight works quite well.  2% is pretty good for a face/body wash that many like for preventing breakouts without drying out their skin.

I use other stuff because these two (and Rx exfoliants) have wrecked the acid mantle of my skin in the past.  The acid mantle is the true hero.  Exfoliate and lubricate.  Oil is not the enemy.

_URL_0_

Question: Simpson's paradox
Answer: Imagine you and your friend are comparing your GPAs. You took 5 hard classes and 2 easy classes, whereas he took 6 easy classes and 1 hard class. You got higher grades in both the easy classes and the hard classes like 5 Cs and 2 As whereas he got a D in the hard class and Bs in the easy classes. Obviously you are the better student but his GPA will be higher overall because the amount of Bs due to his easy classes.
Edit: A simpler example would be you and your friend are comparing basketball shots. He made 40 out of 80 free throws and made no shots out of 20 half court. You on the other hand made 10 out of 10 free throws and 25 out of 90 half courts. He would have the higher shooting percentage even though you are arguably the better shooter. This is because you did more difficult things and he did more easy things. In the end however they have the same weight in the weighted average.

Question: Why do dogs hate it when you blow in their faces, but love sticking their heads out the window?
Answer: Dogs stick their head out the windows of moving vehicles because of the abundance of new, wonderful smells.  Dogs can't resist new, unfamiliar smells, and the open road is full of them! 


Contrast that will blowing your concentrated blast of breath into a dogs nostril! :)

Question: What is a leap year, and why do we have it?
Answer: Because the rotation of the Earth (a day) is not related to the orbit around the sun (a year) we get some discrepancies in our calender when we try to use one to count the other. Our calender has 365 days in a year but it actually takes the Earth about 365.25 days to complete one year. So ever year the days and seasons get roughly .25 days out of sync with our calender. To fix this we add an extra day to the calender every four years (.25 X 4=1) to try and fix the error and realign our calender to the actual orbit of the Earth. But even this isn't good enough as it isn't exactly 365.25 days there are some hanging decimals that build up and over the course of about 400 years we have to do another correction. So every year that ends in 00 doesn't get a leap year unless it is divisible by 400. so 1900 and 2100 did not have leap years but 2000 did. This fixes the accuracy of the calender for another 8000 or so years and since that is longer than recorded history we haven't bothered to fix it for future inaccuracies.

Question: When one company buys another, where does that money go?
Answer: A company is either owned privatly (typically a family or group of banks) or publicly (stock holders). 

If its a private company, the owners get the money paid into their bank accounts which they will then use to go and buy big houses and speed boats. If its a public company, the owners of the shares get the value of their shares paid into their  accounts in exchange for their share(s) - the smaller share holders will smile at making a nice profit, the bigger share holders will go and buy big houses and speed boats.

Sometimes it wont be a cash only deal, often it will be cash plus stock. In which case, the guy selling gets the cash and also gets signed over a load of shares which they can do with as they please. Either way, someone somewhere will be buying big houses and speedboats.

Question: Why are our brains really good at noticing bizarre circumstances while awake, but not while asleep?
Answer: When you are asleep, a specific part of you brain is not used. That part of your brain(correct me if im wrong. Neocortex) is what controls things as common sense and spotting the abstract. I remember studying this in my psychology class but its been a while so i might be off.

Question: If I practice normal motor skills with my non-dominant hand, will it ever be as good as my dominant is naturally?
Answer: It depends a bit. A lot of us lefties are pretty much forced to use our right hand in various situations (ever laid eyes on a pair of seamstress scissors? They are ridiculous hard to use with the hand that doesn't properly fit the grip) and as a result we are sometimes better with some tools using our right hand.

I write with my left hand, use scissors with my left hand but prefer to hold a screwdriver in my right hand. Probably because the tool pockets on my first pair of workshop pants were all on the right side and it made more sense to use the hand I already held the tool in.
Ironically, I prefer I hold my Hitachi power tools in my left hand.

This suggests that all it takes is to teach yourself well enough with the non-dominant hand is a lot of practice.

In reality, you have a lot of use for it if you work in a mechanical field, so if you really need it often you probably already have *some* of this ability honed to usefulness.

Question: Potato electricity
Answer: Any battery is just a chemical reaction that releases electricity. 

A potato contains phosphoric acid, which will react with several types of metal.  You would get a similar reaction if you obtained a beaker filled with diluted phosphoric acid (or many other acids), and inserted the metal rods into the beaker.

The type of metals you choose will determine the voltage of the potato battery. Most of the kits you find on Amazon will have one zinc and one copper rod.

Question: If alcohol is supposed to impair judgement, why do politicians and businessmen drink during meetings?
Answer: I do not know of any formal meetings where politicians imbibe.

Businessmen do it for the same reason anyone else does: it makes you relaxed, and less confrontation, unless you imbibe too much.

But that is kind of old school business. Yes, it does still happen, but most companies have policies against any sort or alcohol intake during company time.

Question: How do football players not get sick when they play sleeveless in really cold/wet weather?
Answer: The body heat thing doesn't seem far-fetched to me because I have experienced it. I like to ice skate, and if you exercise enough at very cold temperatures, you will not be cold. I can comfortably skate in a t-shirt. However, this is an anecdote, and thus of limited usefulness. 

[Here](_URL_0_) is an explanation of how the body "gets used to" cold. When you are in the same temperature for a while, your body will eventually 'ignore' the input in order to focus on  other things.

Question: What is Front End and Back End Web Development?
Answer: Front end - stuff the end user sees.  When you go on eBay and use the search bar to find the thing you want, that's front end. 

Back end - how it all works.  When you type something into the search bar it sends information to a server that pulls the information you need, that's all back end.  When you buy a thing on eBay, and you actually pay for it there is a lot of back end going on, it has to talk to your financial institution, etc

Question: Why is it acceptable for smokers to take additional breaks at work?
Answer: It isnt! I found out that as a non-smoker, if you start hanging out with the smokers during their "breaks", it will cast a negative light on their excessive breaks and bring about enforcement of established times for said breaks. It should be just as acceptable for a non-smoker to take 10 minute breaks every hour as it is for a smoker. If management has a problem with you as a non-smoker taking these breaks, you have a case for discrimination. A person's habit should not make them above company or workplace policy.

Question: Was the catalyst for the YouTube revenue/clean content issue caused by the Wall Street Journal articles on YouTube? Do major papers hold this amount of power?
Answer: Regarding the Wall Street Journal, it's one of the most read papers in the US (currently leading USA Today and NYT as I understand it) with a subscriber count of 2.4M, [according to wiki](_URL_0_).

Additionally many businesspeople, including those at YT and Google and the companies that pulled ads from the Youtubers, read WSJ because it has a reputation of being *the* source of business news in the US. It has a reputation of having extremely rigorous and analytical reporting and investigations so if they're printing something in the news section, they're sure of it. And when it's a hot-button issue like the controversial content on Youtube, readers have a lot of faith that WSJ is telling it straight and has looked at all sides of the situation.

It's actually really hard to overstate WSJ's reach. I'm in an MBA program right now and virtually every class has WSJ listed as an optional/recommended reading material, and some professors explicitly send us some of their old articles to read. Every graduate from my business school is conditioned to follow and trust WSJ's reporting and we're probably not the only school like that.

Question: Why doesn't a pistol shrimp's snap boil water?
Answer: Not enough energy to. It's like lighting a match in a snow storm and expecting it to melt everything. Sure, the match is hot, but theres a lot more cold than there is hot.

Question: Lightning
Answer: This is actually a very complicated question, so I'm going to gloss over some detail, but hopefully the explanation will be comprehensive enough. The only "prerequisites" I'll assume are that you know that charges repel and attract, ie negative charges repel other negative charges and attract positive charges, and that electricity needs a conductor to flow.

So, we start with a cloud. What tends to happen with large enough clouds is that negative charge builds up at the bottom of the cloud. We actually don't fully understand why that happens, though there are lots of very good educated guesses. Suffice to say that we know that negative charge tends to accumulate at the bottom of clouds.

Compared to the bottom of the cloud, the ground is positively charged. Thus, the negative charge in the cloud wants to get to the ground, because it's attracted by the "positive" charge (and repelled by all the other negative charges hanging around). There isn't really a clear path for it to flow, though; air doesn't conduct particularly well.

So, what happens is that a "packet" of negative charge called a "step leader" gets ejected from the cloud once there's enough charge. Basically, there's a breaking point of sorts where some of the charge just gets kicked out of the cloud. The step leader shoots down to the ground, because it's attracted/repelled downwards, and it leaves a path of ionized air behind.

Put more simply, the step leader "leaves behind" some of its charge on its way down in the air, which makes the air on the path it followed ionized. An ionized molecule is just a molecule that doesn't have a neutral charge, so basically a molecule that has one or more extra electrons (or has had some of its electrons taken away). Ionized air conducts reasonably well, so, in essence, the step leader makes a "wire" of ionized air.

Once the step leader reaches the ground, it's made a pretty good connection between cloud and ground, and the rest of the charge in the cloud realizes that there's now a "wire" to travel through, and it all rushes down to the ground. That's when the flash happens; it's when the step leader has hit the ground, and all the other charge follows. The reason that happens is that accelerating charge produces electromagnetic radiation like light, which happens because of another complicated process that I don't want to explain here.

Now, I just told you that the charge travels *downward*, so why do some people say that lightning goes up? The reason they say that is that the charge closest to the ground starts traveling first, so the light gets produced near the ground initially, and then the flash "travels upwards" as the charge higher-up "realizes" that there's a connection. In other words, the *charge* goes downwards, but the *flash* travels upwards.

The reason that lightning tends to (but doesn't always) hit things that are higher up follows from this explanation. The step leader is attracted to positive (technically, neutral) charge, so if it "sees" something closer to it with neutral charge, it'll rush in that direction. Obviously, things that are higher up will be closer to the step leader, so it'll go towards them. Once it makes the connection... boom, lightning.

Question: How come a man can rent a tux from somewhere or buy a suit and use it for multiple special occasions but a woman has too buy a new dress for every event that comes up.
Answer: They *can*, but just generally don't *want* to.

Question: How did people get water to drink in ancient Venice?
Answer: Venice has a complex system that catches rainwater putting it into cisterns that are then accessed by various city wells and fountains.

Question: If two perfect singers sing the same song and can sing the same octaves and notes, how do those two singing voices still sound different?
Answer: Every person, and every instrument, plays each note slightly differently. If you take A over middle C, it will always be 440 Hz no matter whether you sing it, play it on a piano, play it on a saxophone, etc. But just because the note itself is 440 Hz doesn't mean that all of those 440 Hz notes sound the same. Each instrument is playing a 440 Hz fundamental frequency, but it's also playing a bunch of other significant frequencies that are multiples or fractions of the fundamental frequency. The overall sound produced by the fundamental frequency, and all of the other frequencies, is distinct for the different instruments - and that's what we call the "timbre."

Question: Who funds the chocolate milk commercials on ESPN?
Answer: Lobby or industry groups mostly, basiclly the MPAA of the milk or egg businesses.  

According to this
_URL_0_

The add is paid for by The Milk Processor Education Program aka MilkPEP.  

According to their website MilkPEP is funded by the nation's milk processors.

The egg commercials were paid for by the American Egg Board, they are what's known as a marketing board.  Marketing boards are common in agricultural products, basiclly every egg producer pays a fee to the American Egg Board and in exchange the board markets all of the products of the producers. 

Basically the American Egg Board is responsible for encouraging americans to eat eggs.

Question: why can't some people wink?
Answer: Your facial muscles, including your eyelids, are controlled by the facial motor nucleus. This is a cluster of neurons in the brainstem. But it's not a uniform thing, it's split up into smaller parts.

The upper half of your face gets sent mostly weak, bilateral signals. A lateral signal means that the signal is sent to each half of the body individually. Bilateral means it's sent to both sides at once. Because of this, controlling both sides of the upper half of your face is hard, and thus it can cause difficulty in winking, or raising a single eyebrow. If your friend's was weaker than normal, it might've made it impossible for him to do so.

Question: Why do humans have a bellybutton?
Answer: Your belly button is where the umbilical cord connects when you're in the womb.  That's what provides you with food and oxygen.  It has no purpose as an adult, it's just a leftover.

Question: The ability to be vague in the "ingredients" list on certain foods
Answer: The FDA has very specific rules on labeling, as can be found [here](_URL_0_)

The rules specifically address 'spices' and indicate they can be listed very generically, as "spices" or variations thereof. 

As for why they did it that way, one can only conjecture. Industry lobbying, for one, because spices (as the example at hand) may be secret, or may change frequently, or are otherwise just too difficult to keep updated. They also make up a very small part of the product, not enough to affect anyone, and so there's really no point in listing them.

Question: The difference between transsexual, transgender, and hermaphrodite, options those people have for reproduction, and what it means to "Identify" as fe/male.
Answer: A hermaphrodite is a person with a rare condition that causes them to be born with fully functional male AND female parts.  Today, it is usually the case that parents will make a choice and have the other parts surgically removed.

Transgender has to do with gender identity, specifically, identifying as the opposite gender from your physical sex.

Transsexual is a person who has surgically become or is surgically becoming the opposite sex.

As to the latter part of your question, regarding gender identity, I refer you to a [more knowledgeable source](_URL_0_), but to sum up, sex is your physical equipment, and gender is what you feel yourself to be.

Question: Why do we find massages relaxing and soothing?
Answer: Massages stimulate a lot of nerve endings in ways that they typically aren't stimulated. It also increase blood flow in those areas which is good for you body.

Question: Why are we trying to colonize Mars?
Answer: Some facts about Mars: It has 24.5 hour days, 144 trillion square meters of land area (roughly equivalent to the land area of Earth), and an average temperature of -85F. That's cold, but better than any of our other options.

First, a self sustaining martian colony is a Plan B for Earth, should a catastrophe occur that wipes out humanity.

Second, rare and valuable metals are abundant on Mars, and Deuterium is 5x more abundant, the fuel of choice should we ever achieve nuclear fusion as a power source. There is commercial and economic motivations to mine and manufacture on Mars. Because gravity is 2.4x less than on Earth, escape velocity is thusly lower and exporting of world to Earth is cheaper than going from Earth to Mars.

Third, there is substantial opportunity for scientific research on Mars, looking for martian life and furthering our understanding of the creation of our solar system. There is also materials science and pharmaceutical chemistry that is achievable on Mars due to the lower gravity than here on Earth. For example, did you know you can make aluminum more transparent than your typical silicon glass? The problem is gravitational shear as the metal cools. There are methods to get around this but it's extremely expensive, reserved for high end optics and bulletproof US fighter jet cockpit domes because it's a government contract so fuck it. But in space or on Mars, if the gravity is low enough, they can mass produce aluminum glass; never again will you shatter your phone screen by dropping it. Or shooting it, apparently.

And one that ties economics and science together is the amount of innovation that has to go into successfully establishing such a colony. As Neal deGrasse Tyson said, for every dollar invested in NASA, there is a $14 economic return just from the innovation that comes out of solving problems. Pyrex bakeware came out of trying to develop rocket noses, WD-40 was the 40th attempt at making a compound that would Displace Water, that's Water Displacement attempt #40, the internet as a whole came out of a scientists who wanted a better way of linking scientific papers to the documents they cite in their bibliographies. Just attempting to get to Mars would be a huge economic boom, and we're seeing this already, with the birth of the commercial space flight industry, with Virgin Galactic, SpaceX, and Boeing - specifically Boeing working beyond NASA and military contracts.

Finally, there are political motivations. Just look how the US rallied behind the space race of the 50s. Imagine if you can motivate whole nations or an entire planet behind a similar cause.

Edit: To quote Tyson again, who wants to build a jet engine that is 20% more fuel efficient? No one that isn't an aviation executive. Who wants to go to Mars? He had more to say in this thread I'm paraphrasing, but basically he was saying frontier science and engineering inspires the next generation, and they get involved and end up solving other problems while trying to achieve the goal in front of them.

Question: How does a computer processor "turbo-boost"?
Answer: A computer processor (CPU) has an internal clock. It "ticks" so many times per second. A CPU running at 3.2 Ghz ticks 3.2 billion times per second. This is **very** roughly how many calculations it can make per second. You can make the CPU run faster by turning up the clock so that it ticks more times per second. The downside to this is that it creates more heat.

Modern CPUs very carefully monitor how much heat is being put out. If the CPU is currently fairly cool and it has a lot of work to do, it can temporarily boost the clock speed. That's the turbo boost. If it gets too hot it will slow back down so as not to damage itself.

Question: Why is a college degree now required for many jobs when some of those same jobs used to be operated by people with only a high school education?
Answer: Because there are far too many interested. Diploma is a way to reduce the people applying for a job plus the degree is a way to understand that they know something.

Question: How and why do styluses work on touch screens?
Answer: There are two major types of touch screen, resistive and capacitive.

Resistive touch screens work basically by having two layers of flexible plastic over the screen. When something pushes down on the top layer, the layers touch, and this is detected. Resistive touch screens are responsive to basically anything: fingers, pencils, styli, etc. Typically you can tell something is a resistive touch screen since you will clearly feel the flexible plastic, and you can see the action of pushing down if you view the screen at an angle.

Capacitive touch screens work by detecting a property of the body called "body capacitance." Capacitance is a strange concept, but basically the body naturally carries a certain amount of electrical charge in the same way that rubbing a balloon against fabric causes it to have static electricity. These touch screens work by detecting this charge. They don't work with just anything (i.e. your finger or toe [try it] would work but a pencil wouldn't), so you need to get a special stylus (which is made of a material which produces a similar electrical signature to the body) to be registered. Phone touch screens are capacitive because you don't want random things jumbling around in your pockets to inadvertently call someone.

Question: Why is it so easy to notice bad acting? What are good actors doing that makes them seem more natural? Is there a scientific explanation for how we tell the difference?
Answer: Humans are social animals. If you want to have a cushy life in the group, you have to pick up on lots of little cues. Body language, tone of voice, facial expression, every little detail is important and we are trained to pick up on discrepencies. A good actor has to fool you on all of these fronts. A bad actor might only fuck up on one. His smile dloesnt reach his eyes. His voice doesnt sound as angry as his face looks. His face is scared but his body language says hes calm. He fucks a line or his voice cracks. Theres a million ways for his act to be off in just a tiny way, but you pick up on it because social cues are important.

Edit: to address ops additional clarification/questions.

training to be a good actor: method acting is the big one going around, but in truth a lot of great actors use it, and a lot of great ones dont. Everyones different, some things work better for some people than others, but essentially its a feedback system: an actor in training tries something, gets feedback and fixes it based on the feedback. Even the really good actors do this a lot. a movie isnt just a bunch of scenes stitched together, theres outtakes and bloopers and redos galore, though there are scenes done in one take. "Try it again with FEEELING!". 

As for the brain section I imagine its a bit complicated there, primarily involved with language processing and emotional processing, but I dont know enough to pinpoint any particular areas beyond conjecture that it would be heavily biased towards the "limbic brain" which processes emotional decisions.

I dont have any idea about the director bit except to say that maybe with a bad director the actors care less about the acting, or are more stressed or riled up emotionally and it bleeds into the performance.

On detecting it with a computer, I can say pretty definitively that we cant currently detect any but the worst examples by voice. We cant even tell when people are lying definitively without reading scans directly from their brain. But we're getting there. as technology advances im sure we'll develop software that can analyse everything we as humans do, (body language, facial cues, etc.) Its just not there yet.

Question: How does laundering money through expenses work?
Answer: As a general rule, you can't.  Laundering money requires that you inflate _revenues_ so that you can pretend your dirty money was earned through legitimate sources, thus "washing" it.

Now, that said, you can't just inflate revenues forever.  If you run a business and suddenly double revenue without _any_ increase in expenses, it is going to look very suspect to the IRS.  You need to also increase expenses to make it look like you are spending the cash required to generate the revenue you are claiming.

It is also possible that those fraudulent expenses are how they are getting the laundered money out of the business.  If the cartel boss _owns_ the business that is getting payments for the fraudulent expenses, you are able to send him the laundered profits from the business and have it look like a legitimate business transaction.

Question: Why do we often get so entertained just by sitting looking at a bonfire?
Answer: Fire is a powerful tool, and is/was one of mans most prized inventions. The dancing of the flames on the wood can be quite serene. The crackling creates a background filter to help you focus. (username kind of relevant)

Question: The difference between cisgender, transgender, and intersex
Answer: Cisgender is what most people are. Their physical sex, and gender identity are mostly in sync, so they feel 'normal' with themselves for the most part.

Transgender -as can be assumed by the prefix 'trans' being the opposite of the prefix 'cis', is the exact opposite. Their physical sex does not match how their gender identity, so they feel like they're in the wrong body. This is a depressing, often dysphoric situation for most transgender folks, and modern society's view on transgenderism as a mental illness comes with a lot of stigma. 

Then, there are things like genderfluidity, being genderqueer, and being agendered. Things things, as their names suggest; someone whose mental gender identity has a tendency to shift between one and the other; someone whose gender identity does not conform with either male or female, and don't really have a specific category; and someone who don't identify with any gender whatsoever.

Being intersex is a completely different issue to being transgender... sort of.
A person is intersex when their visible, physical sex is not one of the two 'typical' sexes. This is the case in individuals born with atypical genitalia, hermaphroditic(both sexes) genital expression, or in some human chimeras (individuals who are the result of a merging of twin embryos very early on in development).

All of these things are separate from sexual orientation, and should not be treated as one and the same.

Question: What causes the body to get addicted to a certain drug, and why does it form a reliance off of it?
Answer: Drugs affect many parts / processes of your body, but the addiction part is largely neurological.  
  
**Addiction Process:**  
User takes drug - >  Brain gives big reward and starts positive association with the drug - >  User takes drug - >  Association increases - >  Repeat  
   
After the user goes clean, this association remains. Of course addiction involves a lot of things like psychology, past issues, etc. But since you asked specifically about the "body", the addiction part of it is largely neurological.
  
**Basic overview of addiction process:** The drug floods your brain with endorphins / opiates. This results in a positive association with the drug and your brain, that increases the way you use it. The worst part about it is it never goes away, once that neurological connection is made it never breaks down and can only grow stronger. This is why it's so hard for addicts to quit. As the association with the drug increases it becomes increases the desire to use it and there's no way to naturally reverse that association. An addict will always have that neurological association with the drug for the rest of their life. The only thing an addict can do is try to resist the neurologically enhanced desire to use and prevent it from getting worse.  
  
It's basically like [Pavlov's Experiment](_URL_0_), where addiction is a neurologically learned behavior. In this experiment, a bell was rang, and dogs were fed at the same time. After a while, dogs would salivate at the sound of the bell even without the food. This was because they associated the bell with the food. In the case of the addiction, the bell is the drug and the food is the endorphin reward.  
  
Hope that helps!

Question: when you exhale, why is your breath warm with your mouth open  &  cool when your mouth is almost closed?
Answer: When your mouth is open wide you feel the air that has been warmed in your lungs. When it is barely open like blowing out a candle the air from your mouth is moving faster and pulls more of the cool surrounding air into the air stream, this combined with increased air speed makes it feel cooler.

Question: Why do our feet have arches? Wouldn't it be more advantageous to have your weight distributed over the entire surface of the foot?
Answer: The entire purpose of the arch is to act as a spring to help absorb the impact from walking. Walking puts a ton of stress on your bones and if you run, it's worse. Imagine driving a car without it's springs. Every bump would be slamming into the frame basically. Eventually, you'll wear things out much faster.

Also, it may help store up a little energy in your step and 'spring' you forward.

Question: How did different languages develop?
Answer: Think of it like a giant game of telephone, but instead of a message passing from person to person, it's a language passing from village to village, region to region.

One group branches off from the main group, and finds a new place to hang out. They take the language with them. But their knowledge of the main language is limited to the group members; that is, if they encounter a new concept, idea, trend, animal, whatever, and they don't know what the group they left called it, they'll find *something* to call it, which will be particular to that region.

The local accent will also be limited to the people that are in the group - and important people who speak in public, teach, write, etc. will contribute to that group's concept of what *good* speech/writing is. Children growing up won't mimic their parents, unless they have no communication with anyone else. The result is a sort of "averaging" of the accents they encounter on a daily basis.

Over time, people get lazy with their speech. They might run syllables together, drop consonants, gradually morph vowel sounds into something else. And they teach these mannerisms to their children, who make their own "mistakes" which deviate from the original group's norms, and then that generation passes it on to the next, and so on and so forth.

Maybe they'll have contact with other groups who speak different languages, and they'll pick up words and pronunciations from them, which aren't present in the original group's dialect

Repeat over dozens of generations.

Take a smaller group from this new village, and send them out into the world to create their own new homestead. Now they take this sub-language (I don't mean that in any inferior way, just that it branched off from the original language), and start making it their own.

It's really easy to see a progression like this with the romance languages. Castillian Spanish, for instance, streamlines Latin grammar, and differs in consistent ways from, say, Mexican Spanish, where the accent has changed, new words have been adopted, existing words are used in different ways and with different frequencies, and loanwords have come from local languages. But if you sit down and comb through it, it's easy to trace many vocabulary words and grammatical constructions all the way back to Rome.

Question: Infrared remote controllers
Answer: The different buttons prompt the remote to emit a different sequence of 'flashes,' which are interpreted by the receiver to the corresponding action. Think how you can communicate between two ships at sea with a single lantern and a shutter.

Question: Why do pigs go through a big transformation if they're introduced into the wild?
Answer: A creatures phenotype (physical manifestation) is dictated by its genetic code. There are actually different ways in which genetic code will be expressed depending on the environment that the creature finds itself; this phenomenon is called epigenetics. There is another phenomenon called neoteny in which creatures retain juvenile characteristics depending on their environment, and will quickly mature given certain conditions. 

So just as an example to illustrate the point, say that a pig is in a farm and is fed and shielded from predators. The chemical profile of this pig might show low levels of testosterone because there had not been any circumstances that would have precipitated the production of excess testosterone. When the pig is let out into the wild, it is suddenly in danger of predators and starved of nutrients, so the relevant chemical cascades kick in which will be conducive to its survival, and these may actually change the way it physically appears (testosterone -- >  greater hair production, etc).

Question: Why does my nose run when I eat food with cayenne or similar pepper spices?
Answer: Chili peppers, used in spicy foods, contain capsaicin. Other spicy foods, such as horseradish and wasabi, contain allyl isothiocyanate. Both capsaicin and allyl isothiocyanate stimulate a reaction in your nervous system, causing your nose to run.
    Your nose runs when eating spicy foods because both capsaicin and allyl isothiocyanate irritate the mucous membranes in your nose, thus producing mucus in your nasal passages. This is a defense mechanism your body has to keep out unwanted particles, such as dust. Thus, the more irritated your mucous membranes become, the more your nose will continue to run.

Question: Why don't bugs adapt to not hit my windshield?
Answer: By percentage, so few bugs are killed in this way that it doesn't create much evolutionary pressure.

Question: Why are the planets named after Roman Pagan gods?
Answer: The planets out as far as Saturn can be seen without a telescope. The Romans had names for them, and our civilization kept using those names even after the Romans were gone. Uranus and Neptune got their names to continue the pattern.

Oh, and the moons of the planets are named for minor gods and heroes associated with Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, etc. Jupiter's biggest moons are named for women he slept with.

Question: Why does my stomach growl when I am hungry? What is going in inside and why does it make a sound?
Answer: They are called borborygmi - such a wonderful word....

Question: Why does your nose run when you east spicy things?
Answer: Nasal irrigation is a way for the body to protect sensitive and vulnerable tissues in the sinuses. Spicy foods trigger a feeling of actual heat (like real fire), even though it's not actually hot. The best way to cool spicy foods (at least from chili peppers) is with milk or some other dairy product. Fats in milk bind to the oily spice and carry it away, and sugars bind too.

Question: What is happening under the hood my car that makes it "go" when I press the gas pedal?
Answer: Basically controlled explosions. Each car had a certain amount of cylinders (  v6 v8 4 banger etc) that's what people mean when they say that. In each cylinder their is a piston connected to a shaft (crank shaft). Fuel and air are mixed into the cylinder and ignited by a spark plug. The explosion forces the piston downwards and turns the shaft. The shaft is connected to the Transmission which is connect to the wheels. Now this happens thousands of times in a few seconds. There is more too it but that is the basics...

Question: Why does ice stick to your fingers when you're holding it?
Answer: Basically, the ice is so cold that it can freeze the thin layer of moisture on your hands. As the ice warms up, then it doesn't happen anymore. 

Your skin has a small bit of moisture on it. Fresh ice is usually below the freezing point meaning it has some "room" to absorb more energy before it becomes water. So, the ice is freezing that thin layer of moisture on your skin causing it to stick.

This is also why the ice sticks worse if you have just recently washed your hands as there is more moisture available. How much it sticks also depends on the temperature of the freezer that the ice is in.

Question: How are Criminal Disenfranchisement Laws constitutionally legal??
Answer: SCOTUS has decided that disenfranchisement laws are constitutional based on Section 2 of the 14th amendment.

Question: How come if there is an advertisement on TV, it's called a commercial, but anywhere else, they're just called ads/advertisements?
Answer: Commercials are ads too, they're just a specific type of ad that happens to have a specific name. Calling them advertisements wouldn't be incorrect.

Question: Why is it that battery powered wall clocks leave a stain after a period of time?
Answer: That's where the battery case was. When batteries are in use they generate a slight amount of heat. That mark is just a very very slight 'burn' of the paint where it was pressed against the wall. It's not dangerous, because it's a very low-grade burn.

Question: In the cave paintings in France and Spain from 20,000 years ago, there are rinos, lions, gazelles, etc. Why did these animals go extinct in Europe but not in Africa?
Answer: Climate change dealt Europe an ice age -- it just became too cold for some of these animals.

Human population density limited the amount of space for these animals to live, eat, and not be hunted by humans.

Question: What's the difference between college, community college and university in the US in terms of the credibility of one's degree? Do all of these even end with one getting a degree?
Answer: Community Colleges are 2 year colleges that offer trade certificates and Associates degrees. Sometimes, they'll cooperate with a state college or university in order to offer higher degrees in specific programs. These are run by the county (usually) or city (sometimes) and designed to offer a wide variety of education.

Colleges are 4 year institutions that offer up to Bachelor's degrees, as well as trade certificates and Associates degrees. They're typically state funded or private institutions. These are smaller institutions which offer a smaller number of degrees, and are generally specialized. An art college, or a STEM college, for example.

Universities are 8 year institutions that offer all the way up to Doctorate degrees. These are either funded by the state or privately. Universities have many colleges within them, and can offer a wide variety of degrees. Think about places like Harvard, that have a Law college, a Medical college, a Business college, a Divinity college, etc, etc.

Question: Hot air rises on earth but what happens to hot air on the space station?
Answer: There might be some movement due to the different densities of air creating different pressures, but it wouldn't move much compared to hot air on Earth.

An interesting side effect of this is lighting a candle in zero-g. The flame itself doesn't rise into the shape we're accustomed to seeing. Instead it ends up making a dull, spherical glow. And then it extinguishes itself as the oxygen is consumed and not replaced by cool, fresh air as a flame in gravity would do.

Question: If we were to make a armor out of modern day materials what it would be made of and how much protection it could provide agaisnt medival weapons such as swords and early gunpowdered weapons?
Answer: If?  We already do.  Boron carbide.  Ultra-hard, light weight ceramic.

Question: Why are state boundaries on the western side of the USA much cleaner/straighter than those on the east?
Answer: There was a lot of land to divide up, and very few people to worry about keeping communities together for.  

Thus, in the Eastern US you tend to get more natural boundaries such as ridges and rivers, things that might have naturally divided a territory into separate areas that people would spend most of their time on one side of, use for personal property boundaries, etc.

And in the Western US you get more boundaries based on latitude and longitude, which were more faster to assign and didn't need to be surveyed to the same degree of detail.

Question: How do the major mail deliver services (FedEx, UPS) handle people who don't pay for the faster shipping? do they literally sit on the packages?
Answer: They ship it by truck, instead of by air. Much cheaper for them. If the truck's not full for a particular regional destination, then it doesn't go. So your package will sit in one hub until the truck is full enough to send to the hub near you.

Question: Why can't we just have synthetic teeth?
Answer: We do, but they have to be screwed in to your jawbone with titanium screws. 

Natural teeth are glued in place by a layer around the base of the tooth called the periodontal ligament. It acts as a cushion and can heal itself so it doesn't wear out. Tooth implants have no shock absorber or have shock absorbers which eventually wear out. The screws can also work loose...

People get implants anyway but it's a last-ditch thing and expensive. You're arguably better off living with dentures. Back when I wanted to do something with my life I was going to invent a bioengineered lab-grown periodontal ligament to solve this exact problem so people could have tooth implants with cushioning but then I went crazy and wound up working menial jobs and commenting on Reddit for the rest of my life.

Question: How do cuts work?
Answer: Your skin is made out of a bunch of molecules that are linked together. When something pushes hard enough the pushing force is greater than the strength of the links and it breaks.   
Now a blunt object spreads out the force on a bunch of different places, so all these places share the strength of their links, so it doesn't break.  
But a sharp object concentrates the force on very few places, so there is enough force for the links to break and you get cut.

Question: Why do senators and representatives rarely represent the state that they are born in?
Answer: Americans tend to move quite a bit.  This puts us in the position of being able to choose where we want to run for office from.  A politician may not have views that align exactly with their "home" state, and make a strategic determination to move to a location where they have better odds of winning.

Question: Why do balloons stop floating after a while, even though they still have helium?
Answer: Yes, the remaining helium still provides buoyancy, but there comes a tipping point where that buoyancy isn't enough any more to carry the weight of the balloon's casing.

Question: How was it possible for us to view the moon landing when the astronauts hadn't returned to Earth yet? (those were the days of "film at 11")
Answer: For Apollo 11 it was sent by radio signal back to Earth which was picked up by receivers in Australia and then broadcast worldwide.  A camera was attached to the lander to film it.

Question: Why does it seem as though as I grow older, time and life speeds up?
Answer: Dude I am 30 and still raving like mad!
Bring your self together!

Question: Why are PC digital downloads cheaper than console digital downloads?
Answer: Console downloads are a closed market. You have exactly one source for your downloads.

PC digital downloads have competition, so there are more market forces at play.

Question: Why can you stream from Netflix/Hulu/HBOGo with no problem, but your laptop heats up and the video lags if you try to watch from the AMC/CBS/NBC website?
Answer: Netflix' player is based on HTML5, I can't say anything about the others. But I'm assuming that AMC, etc. have Flash-based players... and Flash has terrible performance when it comes to video decoding.

Question: How are street numbers assigned?
Answer: Its based on a grid. If you ever look along the top and sides of a map there will be number indicating that certain areas go along with certain addresses. So when you look up a street you find roughly where the address is. Usually each city/county/township has their own way of deciding which addresses get assigned and where. I know for where I live in Columbus, Ohio it goes off of High St and Broad St, which intersect. So the further you go away from High St heading east or west the numbers will in turn get larger, and the same for Broad St for north and south.

Question: Why do big game developers and publishers not listen to their community and continue making mistakes?
Answer: Because they still make money regardless of how many mistakes they make. Despite all the disappointment with those games, they still sold millions of copies.

Question: Why is cyber-bullying such a problem? Can't people just step away from their computers?
Answer: I imagine that for lots of people, social networking has become an integral part of their life. In fact, it is part of their social circle. I hang out with dudes over Teamspeak that I play games with. Sometimes we meet IRL and hang out, it is also great when you can drive to another country and have a place to sleep etc.  
So basically, someone is bullying you in your social circle, and it is not easy to step away from all that and the connections you have through it.

Question: Where do cranes come from?
Answer: [A big crane is assembled using ground level, flexible length cranes that are mobile but can't carry as big a load as the main crane](_URL_0_)

Question: Pornography censorship in Japan.
Answer: It comes from an old Japanese law that came from the Meiji Era (1868-1912) where content "injurious to public morals" was forbidden.  This law was influenced by Western Victorian morals.  Over time the law was relaxed in other cultures but Japan was more conservative and kept the law around.

The law was eventually reinterpreted to allow you to show breasts and pixelated genitals, but fully uncensored genitals is still illegal under the old law.

Question: How are the costs of reality makeover tv shows like Home Improvement and Hoarders paid for and why?
Answer: Same way all TV shows work. People watch show because they enjoy the content. Then TV network shows adverts to those people. The advertisers pay the TV network who in turn pay the show creators who then have some more money so they can make more shows.

There isn't a TV around that doesn't have costs and a budget. Whether or not your budget includes "building some asshat a new house" isn't really relevant.

Question: How does a computer keep track of the date/time while unplugged from power and the internet?
Answer: Theres a flat battery on motherboards. You gotta change em like every 6 or 7 years.

Question: How does a Government body censor the internet of its people?
Answer: There are various ways. The most basic of which is simply manually removing the server from the internet (i.e. trace the location of the server hosting the webpage via its IP address and then simply seize it).

Question: Why do neon signs have a buzzing noise to them?
Answer: I think the most likely culprit is the transformer for the neon sign. The transformer takes the 120V or 240V 60Hz from the outlet and steps it up to several kV. The way it works is by running current through a coil of wire to create a magnetic field, and then converting that field back to a current in a secondary coil of wire with a different number of turns. The oscillating magnetic field can cause vibrations of any magnetic material in the vicinity (casing, core, etc).

Question: How come movie companies do not do much about pirated movies on the internet?
Answer: Because you can never remove something from the internet. 

You can only restrict access to it.

Question: Why does coiled wire serve as a good inductor?
Answer: When you have current running through a wire it induces a magnetic field.  This magnetic field is circular and encircles the wire.  If you point your right thumb in the direction of the current then your fingers are curled in the direction of the magnetic field.

If you take a wire and coil it up then the magnetic field of the wire gets superimposed with the magnetic field of the next wrap of wire, and the next, and the next, and so on.  This means you get a much higher magnetic field in the center of the coil.

If you have a loop of wire and change the magnetic field passing through that loop then you get a current induced in the wire (with a direction that would generate an opposing magnetic field).  With a coil you are able to have the same magnetic field passing through a bunch of loops at once.

A straight wire doesn't get any inductance (at least in theory).  It generates a magnetic field which doesn't interact with the wire in any substantial way.  A single loop of wire gets a weak magnetic field which interacts with that one loop.  A bunch of loops of wire produces a stronger magnetic field which interacts with many loops.

Question: What is a "trigger" on Reddit, and is it a term used outside of Reddit?
Answer: When some people undergo severe psychological trauma, like rape victims or soldiers, they're left with something called PTSD.  Sometimes, things that remind them of the traumatic event can give them a panic attack or other unpleasant things.

In some online communities, it's considered polite to warn people if you might be talking about sexual abuse/violence.

On Reddit, it's almost always used in a way that's meant to be condescending or insulting to those communities.  The implication is that the communities are too sensitive to offending people and label everything as a "trigger".

They say it's a "joke".  It really falls flat on that point - it's a no effort, content free bit of circlejerkery.

Question: How do non profit companies make money?
Answer: This was explained a few days ago on reddit, so let me see if i can reguritate it.

Non profit means the company isn't making profit. That still means they need qualified persons to fill their jobs. These people are paid, sometimes very competitively, to keep this organization afloat.

What Non-Profit means is that the extra money that's not spent at the end of the fiscal year is invested into their cause, and not divided among the shareholders. So a profit organization would give dividends, but a non-profit would, for example, use the money to build another theatre/stage if the organization was helping the mute and deaf perform on stage.

Just because they're non-profit doesn't mean they're a charity.

Question: How does gut flora work and how can probiotics help?
Answer: Gut flora refer to the billions of bacteria that live in your intestines. They serve multiple purposes. 

1. They help with digestion. E. Coli, for example, helps you by producing Vitamin K, which you cannot produce yourself. 

2. They compete for space with bad, pathogenic bacteria. If bad bacteria can't find a space to colonize, they won't be able to infect you and make you sick. A common secondary infection of antibiotics is infection with a bacteria called Clostridium Difficile, more commonly called C. Diff. This bacteria is normally kept in check by your gut microflora, but when you wipe out a bunch of your microflora with antibiotics, C. Diff is able to colonize and give you some horrific diarrhea. 

Probiotics work by helping your body to regenerate the beneficial bacteria. Probiotics are especially important after taking a course of antibiotics because antibiotics, as I said earlier, will wipe out some of your gut flora. Probiotics will help you avoid things like C. Diff.

Question: What happens when you call into a talk radio station?
Answer: You call the station and someone answers, they ask you what you're planning to say. If they decide your story is acceptable they will usually put you through to a point where you say your thing and it's recorded. The recording will then be played on-air and the hosts will talk about it. If it's a conversation type show you'll instead talk to the hosts and then the recording of that conversation will be played.

I've only ever had a 'live' conversation happen once, and I was asked to turn my radio off because the slight delay between speaking and the broadcast would have made an echo. I assume they delay it a bit so they can bleep you if you swear.

Either way it's not that bad. Go for it next time.

Question: Why do most dish sets come with mugs instead of drinking glasses?
Answer: Dishes are sold as a set so that the patterns all match. But they're mostly opaque while glasses are transparent or translucent. The glasses won't be able to match, so why bother selling them as a set?  

When you say mug, do you really mean cup?  I haven't looked at dish sets recently, but I'd expect cups, not mugs. And cups are proper for serving coffee or tea at the dinner table.  You generally wouldn't serve a hot beverage in a glass.  So is the reason you don't see them being used because you're not used to ending dinner with a hot drink?

Question: What's happening, physically, when a computer starts overheating and becomes laggy?
Answer: Usually the CPU underclocking itself. In rare cases functions might fail or bits could change because the material wasnt designed to operate at those temperatures. When the CPU cant reduce the heat enough it will simply shut itself down.

Question: what exactly is a "resource based economy" and how would/could it work?
Answer: A resource based economy is one that gets most of its wealth from natural resources, like oil, lumber, or mining.

Let's say a small island nation with 100 people discovers a massive copper deposit. Up until that point, they had a few tourists per year, but generally had to sustain themselves. 

Suddenly, 90 people are working on mining the copper, which they sell to other countries, and can afford to buy food instead of farming. 

Every economy needs to have some money flowing in, because there is always money flowing out for things like medical supplies, clothing, taxes, and resources that can't be produced locally. Having natural resources to sell brings in the money the society needs, much like tourism or manufacturing.

Question: What are the beads in hand sanitizers, and why do they float?
Answer: They're [microbeads:](_URL_0_)

 >  Microbeads are plastic microspheres that are widely used in cosmetics as exfoliating agents and personal care products such as toothpaste, as well as biomedical and health science research, microscopy techniques, fluid visualization and fluid flow analysis, and process troubleshooting.[1] They are most frequently made of polyethylene but can be of other petrochemical plastics such as polypropylene and polystyrene.[2][3]

They float because they are less dense than the liquid in which they are situated.

They have been banned in the US under the Obama administration since 2015 because they fuck with the environment.

Question: Direct X
Answer: DirectX is the way that your game communicates with your graphics card. Microsoft takes requests from game developers and makes a list of features that game developers want, but can't do right now.

Microsoft then goes to AMD and NVIDIA, and says, "Hey, these are some things that game developers want to be able to do. We're going to expose these commands to those games, and here's what we're telling them to expect. You can build these commands into your graphics cards however you want, as long as you make them accessible to games in a particular way- and we'll call the group of these commands, brought together, DirectX.

Basically, if game developers had to write games at the level of the computer's base hardware, it'd take forever, and certain games would only work on certain graphics cards. DirectX is a layer in between. It lets games make specific, predetermined commands, and then uses a driver made by the graphics card's vendor to convert those into commands that the graphics card can understand.

Question: Why did our ancestors settle in areas with "uninhabitable" weather?
Answer: Sure, if you're in a place with nice weather, there's going to be more food but there's also going to be more competition for that food **and more predators**.  Going to a harsher environment gives you more space to expand without other people trying to take your shit or kill you.

Even today, you can see that in effect.  Compare the average rent for an apartment in LA or Miami to the rent for an apartment in Fargo, North Dakota

Question: Why does it feel so good to scratch an itch?
Answer: Insects cause itch.

Insects are sometimes bad for you.

Scratching removes said insects.

It's an evolutionary thing, scratching removes irritants.

Question: What is this G2A scandal everyone seems to be talking about?
Answer: Basically it is a marketplace where G2A the company themselves sell 'non-pirated', 'stolen keys' or 'hacked credit card' Game Keys to activate downloads with a decent discount.

But as it is a marketplace other "shops" are allowed to sell CD keys. These CD keys can come from anywhere, hacked/stolen credit cards, stolen games etc etc. This obviously means that sometimes the CD key is stopped from working by game developers from time to time. With this or any other purchase on the internet the purchaser is entitled to a refund, however it can be difficult to get and takes time. G2A 'solve' this problem by offering G2A shield - which is a premium product, basically insurance on your purchases which ensures a quicker response time.

I'm not entirely sure but this "premium product" isn't a one time fee and buyers were charged monthly (not sure but I read the AMA from the other day) fees. That isn't good. And it isn't great that users have to pay a premium for something that G2A knows actively goes on by a lot of the sellers on their marketplace.

It's pretty much like going to a pawn store and buying an item. Police knock on your door and tell you the item you purchased was originally stolen and sold to the pawn store. They take the item and now you have to fight for your money back from the shop. Nightmare.

Game developers are so pissed off with G2A's activities and unwillingness to do something about it that they actively tell gamers to pirate their game rather then lining their pockets more. Most game developers know that not every gamer cannot afford the game and most don't offer demos anymore. So pirate copies are pretty much a demo game for the online multiplayer games of the world in a game devs eyes.

This is the best explanation I can muster from only reading an AMA and not actively researching.

Question: Why does the body need carbon dioxide?
Answer: CO2 plays a vital role in maintaining the acid-base balance of your blood.  The more CO2 in your blood, the more acidic it is.  When you hyperventilate, you expel much of the CO2 in your blood, making it more alkaline.  This is known as [respiratory alkalosis](_URL_0_).  Respiratory alkalosis leads to light-headedness, tingling and loss of sensation in your extremities, muscle spasms and stiffness, and loss of consciousness.  Once you lose consciousness, you should stop hyperventilating and your CO2 levels will return to normal.  If there's some reason *other* than hyperventilation that you're losing blood CO2, though (example: you're at high altitude and have to breathe more to get more O2), it can eventually lead to death.

Question: Why did the people of Toronto vote for Rob Ford?
Answer: His base is primarily in the suburban areas which felt under-represented by past candidates. He has a man-of-the-people image that he has worked hard to cultivate, in truth he is from the wealthy elite. Ford would personally return his constituents calls, small town style. His buffoonery is genuine. Despite the media circus that he generates, very little is said of his actual work. Ford's civic record is decent.

Question: easing yourself into hot/cold water to acclimate your body
Answer: Brains are cool and are able to adapt to any constant/repetitive stimulus such that you no longer realize you percieve it. (clocks ticking, your own footsteps). This might be why you stop feeling it, since your vrain is like "okay i get it, its hot. lets move on"

Question: Where is all accepted scientific knowledge kept?
Answer: There is no single gatekeeper, who decides what is and is not "accepted scientific knowledge". Nor is science like mathematics, where a proof can be self-evidently correct. It depends on evidence, which may be inaccurately or unreliably collected or interpreted. As such, scientific knowledge is provisional, based on evidence as it accumulates and is confirmed by repetition. One might draw up a vague scale of theories, from "totally inconsistent with available evidence" near the bottom to "conjectural, without any evidence as yet" in the middle, up to to "well-confirmed, makes predictions that are borne out by repeated experiments under reliable circumstances" near the top. But any given theory will have its adherents and detractors, who doubt or trust specific points of data as they relate to the theory.

It's not a satisfying answer, but it's the truth.

Question: How do songs/albums/mix tapes get leaked?
Answer: Usually they are leaked by someone who receives an advance copy, such as for review purposes. There have also been instances, although not as common, of leaks happening from the factory where they press the CDs. It could pretty much happen any time someone has advance access to the media in question. All they have to do is make a copy or upload it straight to the internet.

Question: EL5: Russian names
Answer: First names:  Given to the child by the parents, as in the West.  Every first name has a whole bunch of nicknames traditionally associated with it.  Sometimes these are pretty random (the way "Dick" doesn't actually sound very much like "Richard") but a lot of them are made by adding an ending like "-enka" or "-ushka."  This sounds affectionate in Russian, like "Tommy" or "Sammy" sounds affectionate in English.

Patronymics:  These come second.  It's the person's father's first name plus "-ich" (for a man) or either "-vna" or "-chna" (for a woman).

Surnames:  These work the same as Western surnames, passed down from father to children.

Calling somebody by a nickname is intimate; calling somebody Firstname Patronymic is normal, and can be anywhere from friendly to cold; calling somebody Mr. Surname is formal.

Question: The Crop Circle Phenomenon
Answer: I think this can be explained to a 5yr old without resorting to simple talk:  

-They are made by people. (there is nothing mysterious abut them).  
-You'll probably notice that crop circles are all based on curves  &  circles...even the really complicated ones. Ever used a drawing compass to draw a circle? well they use the same principle, but instead of such a compass they use a stake in the ground attached to a long string /or rope which they use to mark out a perimeter of a circle, then just trample the crop within the line. Large ones are made by groups of people making bigger circles with bigger stake/rope things - and more practice.   

The stake/rope thing also enables pretty good straight lines, too. (Measure the string accurately before hand and keep it tight...you'll get circle the same size every time)  

obligatory wikipedia page:
_URL_0_

For really elaborate ones they might also use a mapping compass to get position of the circle/string spot on.

-fuckwits make them. It's not big and - once you understand the simple principles involved - its not clever either. I suppose some farmers may have them made deliberately to get attention/money from other fuckwits who believe in space wizards (faceplam).

-because the people who started making them tried to make them look like an alien craft had landed e.g. 3 circular footprints in the ground. This was a few decades ago and it all sorta snowballed. Like a viral marketing thing or a meme. Once the media found an interesting angle it got carried away.    

EDIT: strangely relevant: _URL_1_

Question: SSH clients ? What are they used for ? And how can I get started ?
Answer: SSH is a generic protocol used to securely communicate between 2 devices/computers.  You can send whatever data you like over this encrypted channel, there are some built in tools, which is what 99% of people use it for.

* 
SSH: Secure "Shell".  Use a client like Putty if you're on a windows machine.  This logs you into a command prompt on the remote system allowing you to run commands.

* 
SCP: Secure Copy.  Direct file copying over a network, must know file names ahead of time.

* 
SFTP: Secure FTP (File Transfer Protocol).  FTP is a another protocol entirely so this a bit of a mis-nomer but it applies.  Use a client like WinSCP.  This allows you to browse files and directories on remote systems and copy files to and fro.

You can do all sorts of nifty crap using a ssh session, I've even used it as a VPN tunnel.  I've also used it for harddrive copying, and to wrap other protocols up, like NFS.

Authentication is generally Username/Password but you can also setup what are called "ssh keys" which allow access without requiring a password.

In order for you to talk to a remote machine using ssh there are 2 things you'll need.  Firstly, the remote machine must be running an ssh service of some kind.  Linux/Unix does by default, you can install one on windows, and I *think Apple has one installed, but it's not on by default.  Secondly, you need a client of some kind.  Putty works well for windows, and it's free.  I think Apple has one built into the terminal, Linux/Unix should already have command line ones.

I don't touch Apples for the most part, so what the fuck is iFile?

Question: Why does staring at white paper in bright sun light cause your eyes to see everything in a different shade of color immediately afterwards?
Answer: In the simplest terms, when you stare at bright light, like the sun, or a flashbulb, the sensors in the back of your eyes (rods and cones) that receive the light are hyper-excited, and it takes a while for them to "calm" back down again.  

Or, you could be like me and you don't see anything after staring at a white piece of paper in bright sunlight.  You're too busy sneezing your fool head off because you are one of the 18-35% of the population that has A.C.H.O.O. (seriously) also known as [photic sneezing reflex](_URL_0_).

Question: Checks and Balances
Answer: The US Federal government is split into 3 different parts, the executive branch (lead by the President), the judicial branch (Supreme Court)  &  the legislative branch (Congress).

"Checks and Balances" is the idea that if any one branch of the government steps out of line, they can be stopped by the other two.

Let's look at the Supreme Court.  The Supreme Court can decide that a law passed by congress or a presidential action is unconstitutional.  To balance that out, the president is the one who nominates new justices  &  Congress must approve them before they take action.  Congress can also initiate Constitutional amendments to change the constitution and even impeach judges who are extremely out of line.

Most of the rest of the actions involve a legislative/executive interaction.  The legislature makes laws but the president has a veto power.  The executive is responsible for carrying out laws but the legislature has control of the budget and can reject the presidents picks to head major government agencies.  The president controls the military but only Congress can declare war.    The executive negotiates treaties and conducts foreign relations but the legislature must approve the treaties.

Question: Why do objects leaving the atmosphere not burn like they do when entering the atmosphere?
Answer: Orbiting is all about going fast, less about going high.

When going into orbit you usually start by climbing mostly straight to get out of the thick atmosphere--that just slows you down with drag.  Once you're mostly to orbital altitudes there's essentially no friction so it's possible to accelerate horizontally for a few minutes to achieve orbital velocities.  You never wind up traveling at orbital velocity while in the atmosphere.

When coming back from orbit you could, in theory, do the same thing in reverse.  You could fire a rocket for a few minutes to slow down, then come through the atmosphere at only a couple times the speed of sound.  The problem with that approach is that it takes an *enormous* amount of fuel.

What's far, *far* more efficient is to alter your orbit just a little so that you go through the atmosphere which will slow you down for free.  That means you hit the atmosphere at essentially orbital velocity which causes a huge amount of heat due to the air in front of you being compressed (not primarily due to friction as is often assumed; friction is a significant factor, but compression is the main component).

Question: How does a turning a faucet change the temperature of water
Answer: There are two tubes running into your faucet. One straight from the mains, and the other from your water heater. When you open the faucet, the tap itself opens to allow water to flow out.

When you turn the faucet, you are changing the amount of water coming through each of the pipes. All the way to the hot side opens only the hot water pipe and not the cold one. Same for the cold water side. 

In the middle should ideally be half and half, but since the water heater heats the water to uncomfortable temperatures, the middle generally allows more cold water so you don't burn yourself.

Question: if certain viruses need a living host to survive, why haven't they adapted to a point where they don't ultimately kill their host?
Answer: Most viruses probably are benign or even beneficial to the host, but two things can happen:

1) A virus can jump species and have new effects on the new species it didn't on the prior one

2) As long as it stay alive long enough to spread again it won't die off. It's at an evolutionary disadvantage compared to an infection but benign virus, but that doesn't mean it'll get removed from the world immediately, it just means it might stay a smaller population or die off over many generations.

Question: how muscles get stronger.
Answer: Imagine a village that has a very valuable treasure in it and the villagers build a big wall around it to protect the treasure!  Well lets say someone comes along and tears down the wall to get to the treasure.  The villagers are really upset by this and after the wall is torn down they decide to build it back up even bigger than before to keep people out and away from their treasure!  After all, the wall didn't do a good enough job the first time so they need a bigger, better wall to hopefully make it work the next time!  Of course, the villagers need really great materials to make a really great wall but as long as they have those great materials they'll keep building the wall back a little bit bigger and better each time it gets torn down.  After all, they have to protect that treasure!

Now think of muscle growth that way except that the wall is your muscle, the tearing down is your weight training, the materials for the wall are your diet, and the villagers are your body.

Question: Why did the Allies attack the most fortified place in Europe at Normandy rather than landing the bulk of their armies on a less dangerous coastline?
Answer: It wasn't the most fortified place in France at the time. That would be the Pas de Calais, the most obvious place to invade (you can see England from there).  The point of allied deception operations was to convince the OKW that the landings in Normandy were actually a feint, and that the real push would come with General Patton landing a (completely fictitious) First US Army Group near Calais.  A lot of effort went into this. Historians are sort of divided on how much the Germans actually bought it, but in any event the precious German armoured divisions stayed out of the fight long enough to allow a real beachhead to be established, and the rest is, as they say, history.

Question: High school males get a boner in class for absolutely no reason, why is this?
Answer: Use the search function.


All healthy males get erections for no reason, randomly throughout the day, sometimes beginning even before puberty. No sexual thoughts or stimulation are required.

We also randomly achieve erection during sleep, several times. No sexual thoughts, dreams, or fantasies are required.

The human body is constantly monitoring its health, and part of that process involves occasionally increasing or decreasing blood pressure to the genitals to ensure they respond correctly to stimulus. Even women do this. Genitals are extremely important to our survival, and are thus rigorously checked throughout the day, automatically and without any ability to control the function.

An increase in testosterone (as is associated with puberty) might make this process occur more frequently or for longer durations. A decrease in testosterone (associated with age) might decrease the frequency or duration of this process.

Question: What would the repercussions be IRL for someone who did what Jack Black did in "School of Rock"?
Answer: Trespassing at school. And most likely a couple dozen counts of kid napping for taking them off campus.

Question: What is a pocket veto? Why is it legal?
Answer: It's a legal maneuver.  If congress passes a bill, the president has 10 days to decide to sign or veto.  If he does nothing, then the bill automatically passes.

However, if, during that 10 day period, congress adjourns, then if the president takes no action, the bill is automatically vetoed.  This is the pocket veto.

It's legal because the constitution says it's legal.

Question: Why do banks offer interest? What’s in it for them?
Answer: They get your money.  Would you give money to a bank if you didn't get anything in return?  The interest is a payment to you so you'll give them your money.

Question: how does garbage always smell the same when it is composed of innumerable different smelly objects?
Answer: Because it mostly only smells when there's rotting food waste in it and it is the same types of bacteria breaking it down and emitting the same types of by products that smell. You don't get that smell if it's just wood or paper or plastic or metal etc.

Question: How does CAPTCHA work?
Answer: CAPTCHA stands for Completely Automated Public Turing Test to Tell Computers and Humans Apart. They're also known as a type of Human Interaction Proof (HIP). 

You've probably seen CAPTCHA tests on lots of websites. The most common form of CAPTCHA is an image of several distorted letters. They require you to type the correct series of letters into a form. If your letters match the ones in the distorted image, you pass the test and are "confirmed" as a human.

[This](_URL_0_) website lets you know more if you are interested.

*If you have any questions don't hesistate to reply below and I will answer your question(s) to the best of my ability. If you thought my answer was helpful, please just take a few seconds to leave an upvote. Thanks! :)*

Question: Why don't women face criminal charges for making false rape allegations against men?
Answer: This is not a complex technical question so this has been removed.  Also:

 >  Don't post just to express an opinion or argue a point of view.

This is your fourth post removed from this sub in as many months, you seem to not get that ELI5 is not a place for you to express your opinions in the form of a question.  So you can take a break from here.  Maybe in the two weeks you have off you'll take a moment to read our sidebar.

Question: Am I hurting my chances at getting into college when I put Asian down for my race?
Answer: ELI5 is for requests for easy-to-follow explanations of complex concepts and subjects. That means no questions that are just looking for straightforward answers, that are subjective, a request for a guide/walkthrough, or that are objective but not asking for an explanation of an answer. ELI5 is absolutely not a repository for any question you have.

Question: Leukemia
Answer: In a nutshell (not a doctor), leukemia is a cancer of the blood forming tissues in the body (both bone marrow and lymph nodes).  The cancer cells don't function like regular cells leading to problems that are specific to the type of leukemia.  If in the marrow, red blood cells are affected causing anemia.  If in the lymph nodes, white blood cells are affected causing immune problems.  Those can eventually cause death.  Additionally, some types of leukemia can significantly increase the risk of other cancers.

Question: Why does combination of smoking cigarette and drinking alcohol gives an overwhelming feeling of drunk-ness?
Answer: Because the nicotine gives you a headrush while the alcohol also similarily gives you that light headed euphoric feeling also then you now have nicotine and alcohol in your blood. Nicotine causes nausea and so does alcohol so you probably have a combined worsening nausea. 

But.. aww thats cute you still notice the feelings when you smoke. Those were the good days

Question: What happens with the surplus energy of my bike dynamo?
Answer: It is dissipated as heat. When an electric device fails to "use" more energy, generally it's because resistance is increasing -- often by design. Pumping more electricity through resistors causes them to turn it into heat, which then goes out into the atmosphere.

Question: Why do children like to draw so much?
Answer: I think everyone likes to draw. We have a natural-born desire to create and to express ourselves through visual art. Unfortunately many of us lose that desire due to laziness, lack of time, distractions, and/or discouragement from adults.

Kids haven't experienced those pressures to the same degree yet.

Personally, I think bringing drawing back into the curriculum would be one of the best things we could do to shape a positive society.

Question: Why do children's stomachs look bloated when they are malnourished?
Answer: It's called kwashiorkor, and is caused by a protein deficiency. In normal conditions, we have proteins floating around in the blood, which causes fluid to be retained due to osmotic forces. However, this protein needs to be replenished. When it isn't, fluids will pool in the soft tissues of the body, and will cause the bloating effect in malnourished children.

Question: Where does skin allergy come from?
Answer: Allergy is a very complex proces even for specialist, but if explain it in general allergy is a defect of immune system when immune cells thinks that some safe substances are dangerous  (like some food, pollen or animal fur) Immune cells are located almost everywhere in organism, also there a lot of them in skin, so if even allergen came thorough stomach or nose it still affect all the organism and make cells produce inflammatory markers which couse high temperature, swollen, redness and itching. Since skin is visible to us we can see consequences of allergy there. 
Also there are some autoimmune diseases that aren't connected to special allergen, just immune system goes crazy and start local inflammation with no reason  (dermatosis, eczema and others)

Question: How do pilots know ahead of time when turbulance is going to occur?
Answer: Meteorological information can be used to predict turbulence with reasonable precision. Also, aircraft will report when encountering turbulence and air traffic control will relay that to other aircraft in the area.

Question: Why medical establishments can charge outrageously high prices for their services, when the identical procedure can be done somewhere else for a fraction of the price? On the same note, how is it even legal for them to hide the price until they give you the bill?
Answer: >  Can someone please explain to me what in the hell is going on here?

What is going on is that the American healthcare system is a sad joke.

Question: Why do our arms tingle when we extend or reach them too far?
Answer: Chiropractic student here. What it sounds like you're saying is simply a stretch of the nerve. When the nerve is stretched, it can stimulate it, causing it to fire. The brain interprets that signal as a tingle along the nerve and the area of the arm it supplies. A similar case is when you hit your "funny bone". What you're actually hitting is your ulnar nerve. When it's hit, it is stimulated, causing a tingling pain along the inner forearm, pinky, and half of your ring finger (this is the area that nerve supplies).

Question: Why do Lithium Ion batteries lose their ability to maintain charge after many cycles of charging?
Answer: It is due to several things.

The most important is physical. During charging/discharging lithium atoms move from one electrode to the other. The lithium goes into tiny pores in a sponge like electrode, but when this happens the sponge swells up. Repeated swelling and shrinking eventually causes cracking and fractures in the electrode, degrading it.

The other main effect is chemical reaction in the electrolyte. During charging, tiny amounts of electrolyte material undergo unwanted chemical reactions with the electrode chemicals. Eventually the electrolyte gets polluted with all the byproducts of these reactions degrading it.

Question: Why is the burden of proof on the defendant instead of the accuser in the case of patent trolls?
Answer: I'm not sure I follow. The burden of proof is still on the claimant (whoever is claiming that you are infringing on their patent).

Here is a relevant excerpt from [FindLaw](_URL_0_) pertaining to US patent law:

 > The patent holder bears the burden of proof to show that the defendant infringed the patent. The plaintiff must prove infringement by a preponderance of the evidence. This standard means that the greater weight of the evidence must show that the patent is infringed.

It's true that a patent holder may demand money (in the form of a patent license fee) from a business it claims is infringing on their patent without providing proof of such a claim.

However, legally the business does not need to pay up unless it is actually infringing on the patent. The business is free to dispute the claim and basically challenge the patent holder to sue the business if the patent holder genuinely thinks there is an infringement occurring.

Once the matter goes to court, it's the responsibility of the claimant/plaintiff to demonstrate that the other business is infringing on the patent / intellectual property.

If the court finds the business liable for patent infringement, then the patent holder may be able to recover damages and other expenses from the business.

If the court finds there to be no patent infringement, then the business is absolved of any liability to pay damages, license fees, etc. to the patent holder.

Question: Why do unplugging things and plugging them back in cause them to start working again?
Answer: Basically software can have small errors in it. Or hardware can occasionally error. One common problem is memory leaks. 

But basically the longer something runs the more likely it will have minor errors. The longer it runs the more those errors accumulate. So turning it off, and turning it back on resets the system and will usually clear out any accumulated errors.

Question: What's going on in Philadelphia? Why are they shutting down so many schools and rail lines and so on?
Answer: The school system is broke.  That's a gigantic mess unto itself.

SEPTA isn't broke yet.  The planned reduction in services would only happen in a worst-case scenario where the state doesn't give it enough future funding.  It's problem is that more and more people are using it, but the state hasn't increased its funding accordingly and hasn't given it nearly enough money for its maintenance budget to upkeep rail bridges and such.

Question: Why do some people say, 'on accident,' and others say, 'by accident'?
Answer: Someone said "on accident" by accident, never owned up to the mistake and it caught on

Question: Static vs dynamic IP address, and how an IP address differs from a Mac address
Answer: Mac address is an identifying number hard coded onto the hardware by the manufacturer.

Dynamic addresses are IP addresses automatically assigned and re-assigned by a DHCP server.

Static addresses are IP addresses assigned by the person installing the system in the IP configuration options and do not change unless some one changes them.

Question: if diseases like hiv are blood/vector borne, why don't humans and animals in western society contract it, via mosquitoes from one person to the next?
Answer: Mosquitos (and other insects) have two tubes they pierce you with - one for injecting saliva, and another for withdrawing blood. It's basically a one-way system - fluid goes out of the insect through the saliva tube, and in through the blood tube. 

This means that any viruses sucked up through the blood tube won't directly get injected into another person, because nothing comes out of that tube and goes into another person.

The way mosquitos pass on diseases such as malaria is because malaria reproduces inside the mosquito - thus it also gets into the saliva tube. HIV doesn't do this.

Because HIV doesn't get into the saliva tube, you would only receive a tiny, tiny amount if bitten after an HIV-carrier. HIV needs quite a high dose to infect someone, which is another reason why you won't get infect by mosquitos. If you did happen to get bitten just after an HIV-carrier, you'd receive about one ten-millionth of the dose needed to actually infect you.

Question: Is Valves Steam a trusted system?
Answer: Yes. There is so much money coming in from Steam that it won't go down. It's got so many big companies selling through it. If Valve can no longer keep it up, they have said that they will release a key or software to unlock all your games from steam and remove the DRM. But they probably won't have to, since there are so many that would love to buy Steam and take over control of it. I don't know if Valve would sell it, but if they wanted to, then there's a huge amount of large companies ready to grab it.

Question: Can someone explain why Jesus is often one in the same as God, and why do people pray to both?
Answer: Christian doctrine describes [The Trinity](_URL_0_):

- The Father

- The Son 

- The Holy Spirit (or Holy Ghost)

They are separate but one.  While Jesus was distinct Jesus was, in their theology, literally God on Earth.

So, praying to Jesus is the same as praying to God.  They are the same entity.

If this leads you to wonder about some other questions I am not surprised.  Thinking the ramifications of that through leads to some...interesting...conclusions but I guess that is another topic.

Question: Why does your stomach 'drop' when your in an elevator?
Answer: Because that's literally what happens. Your stomach has inertia, it wants to stay where it is. Your body suddenly starts moving up, it has to exert a force on your insides to get them to also move up. Same thing coming back down.

Question: VAT Calculation
Answer: You're not taking 20% off of the total cost. You're adding 20% to the subtotal to get your total after value-added tax. They are two very different operations.


Let's say something costs $20. If I take 10% off of that, that's $2 off of $20 for a total of $18. That's what you're doing in your second operation.


If I take something that's $18 and I add 10% to it, however, 10% of 18 is only a dollar 80, giving me a total of $19.80. 


That is where you seem to be getting confused, they're conflating 10% of 250, which is 25 with 10% of 200, which is 20. The value added tax in this example is 10% of the subtotal and not 10% of the final total. That is why you must reverse the original multiplication in order to find the original subtotal

if,
x * 1.2 =y

then,
x = y/1.2

Because

X * 1.2 = y
X / 1.2 = y/1.2
X= y/1.2

It's a simple matter of Performing the same function to both sides of the equation, as you might recall if you ever took algebra and happen to remember it. The same thing applies to simple sales tax whenever you purchase something that is subject to it.

For example, where I live we have an 8% sales tax on most things. There for something that costs a dollar is subject to $.08 of sales tax for a total of 1.08

In your original example, you make the mistake of trying to subtract that 8% tax from the final total, which give you 8% of a $1.08 which is $0.14, if you round to the nearest penny. This air would lead you to incorrectly conclude that the original subtotal prior to tax were only $0.94

Question: The feeling that your being watched. Like if you don't know someone is in the room but feeling like someone else is there
Answer: One theory is that your brain can be very sensitive to slight changes in how sound bounces around the room. If someone enters the room, it will slightly change the dynamics of how the room reflects sound now that there is a person in the way. You brain may be able to pick up on that slight change of noise signature and alert you that something in the room has changed and you should probably take a look around to ensure that you are not in danger.

Question: What is ETH Ethereum cryptocurrency, why it has value and what are "smart contracts"?
Answer: Ether (ETH) is a cryptocurrency, similar to bitcoin.
Ether has value as it is used to propel exchange of information on the Ethereum blockchain. As Ethereum is finding its way in to every single sector worldwide (finance, healthcare, government, humanitarianism, supplychain...). Adoption of the technology is at a pivotal point. Ether will be used to fuel smart contracts which is one of the valuable layers of the Ethereum platform. 

Basically the technology behind Bitcoin is called blockchain. Vitalik Buterin looked at the tech and said, this can be so much more than a transfer of monetary value. It can be a transfer of information. Bitcoin is strictly a cryptocurrency (virtual currency). It can't do anything else other than provide payment solutions. Ethereum is a blockchain platform that allow for so much more than just a crypto payment layer.

Smart contracts, which many say is a misnomer as they are not "smart", but they are a computerized transaction protocol that self-executes the terms of a contract. If Y, then execute X...autonomously. Smart Contracts allow users to solve common problems in a way that minimizes trust. Simple examples are transferring car titles or property values, managing marriage and divorce agreements, placing bets in fantasy sports leagues, revenue disbursements via micropayments (think royalty payments), among many, many other use-cases that are much more complicated.

This is Ether and smart contracts at their bare minimum. There is so much to Ethereum!

PS. Oh and it's all decentralized, meaning no single point of failure, no censorship and its all transparent and immutable in a safe, encrypted way.

Question: How does someone deal with professional degrees and other resume info when in the witness protection program?
Answer: Many of them cannot. They have to take menial jobs in somewhat related fields, or start from scratch. Licences and degrees for practicing in those fields are attached to a name. If you want to change your name and keep your licence you have to notify the licencing board of the switch. Protected witnesses cannot do that.

Question: A couple days ago, a 300 year old Stradivarius violin was stolen (and later found.) What would be the point of stealing something so famous that anyone who can afford the million-dollar price tag would recognize as a stolen item?
Answer: Theft by contract. 

A millionaire decides that he wants something his money can't buy in a conventional way, so he pays someone to steal it for him. 

He doesn't care if people know that he has it or not; the satisfaction of possession alone is worth the price he pays to have it stolen.

Question: The Senkaku islands - Japan/China tension.
Answer: The Senkaku Islands (Diaoyu Islands in China or Tiaoyutai Islands in Taiwan) are claimed by Japan, China, and Taiwan. Officially, Japan annexed the islands in 1895 with the US taking them back in 1945 (because of World War 2) and giving them back to Japan in 1972. However, this same year is when China and Taiwan began to claim the islands as their own. Japan ended up giving the islands to a local mayor to take care of and in 2012 announced plans to fully purchase the islands back.

This has caused a lot of stress in China because of past history between China and Japan mostly because China feels Japan has never apologized appropriately enough for their actions in World War 2.

China's position:
1) We discovered the islands first.
2) We have old maps that show they belonged to us (to fight off Japanese pirates no less!)
3) When Japan took control of the islands (in 1895) the Minister of Foreign Affairs was nervous about making us mad which shows they truly belong to us.
4) Japan only claims their four major islands and any other minor islands "we" decide. The 'we' in this sentence are countries who signed the Potsdam Declaration which includes us!
5) We never agreed with the US to give Japan the islands in 1972.

Japan's position:
1) The islands are uninhabited and were not in China's control before 1895.
2) The islands are not part of Taiwan or another island group which were given to us in 1895 but we gave those back later.
3) We've controlled them since 1972.
4) You only wanted them since 1971 when the UN said there could be oil and gas nearby. 

So now China is really mad with Japan for playing with this cool toy and they want it back. Both countries are too scared to immediately start a war so China is sending over a lot of fishing boats to scare Japan to see what they do. If Japan does nothing it may show China that Japan is incapable or unwilling to protect the islands.

Question: Is drinking only carbonated water (no added sodium or anything in it) just as good as drinking regular water?
Answer: it's marginally worse. your body has to spend other resources like calcium to fight he acidity.

Question: If home electronics in USA is working at 110V, why do we use 220V electric current in Europe. Isn't 110V more energy efficient?
Answer: Higher voltages are generally more efficient because they reduce the current needed to deliver a required number of watts, and lower current means less power lost to heat in the wires. That's why pylons carry thousands of volts rather than 110V or 220V. On the other hand, lower voltages are safer because a smaller current will pass through your body if you get a shock.

Question: Thomas Aquinas Five Proofs
Answer: 1. If an object is moving, something must have put it in motion (here motion stands for transformation).
2. There must be a **primary** "thing" that started motion. An object cannot put itself in motion. So this primary thing must be God.
3. There are things that are not useful (everything), but since they exist, they need a necessary object which started their existence. This necessary thing is God. ("necessary" means something that must exists and cannot change; all the things in the universe change, so they are not "useful", or "contingent")
4. Everything has different degrees of perfection. For example, the sun is only partially perfect. The Creator is completely perfect.
5. There are things which don't have intelligency. Whatever lacks intelligence cannot move towards an end, unless it is directed by someone who has intelligence and knowledge. So, a intelligent being exists, and we call this being God.
______________

Contradiction:

1  &  2  &  3 Big assumptions. It's not so obvious that there was a first cause that started motion. The universe could be an eternal and infinite whirl.

4 This in not even demonstrable. Perfection is subjective.

5 Big assumption: all the things in the universe have a purpose. Is it true?

Question: why do people say that we are violating the constitutional rights of illegal immigrants? Don't the constitutional rights only apply to U.S. citizens??
Answer: Often described as a "living document," the Constitution has repeatedly been interpreted by the U.S. Supreme Court, federal appeals courts and Congress in order to address the ever-changing needs and demands of the people. While many argue that "We the People of the United States," refers only to legal citizens, the Supreme Court has consistently disagreed.

Edit:  far back as 1896, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that:
*
“The Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution is not confined to the protection of citizens. It says: ’Nor shall any state deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the law.’ These provisions are universal in their application to all persons within the territorial jurisdiction, without regard to any differences of race, of color, or nationality; and the equal protection of the laws is a pledge of the protection of equal laws.”*

Question: Can someone explain the physical pain I experience when I accompany my wife on a long shopping day? It's different from normal headaches but I wonder why. And IT'S REAL! (Does anyone get this?)
Answer: I wonder of its exposure to certain fluorescent lights. I get that, too. Not every florescent light does it. I'm not really willing to do the trial and error to figure it out. :)   
I would have never realized it was the lights if I hadn't known others with the same problem.   

Anecdotal story time: I was taking an evening class for funsies, a few weeks in they changed the lighting in the room, the first class with new lights, the gentleman teaching got a crazy headache, the sweats, went pale, and passed out. He thought he was getting sick, let us out early, no big deal. It kept happening to him in that room. Finally he asked them to use some floor lamps instead of the new fluorescent lights in the ceiling, and he was fine. I had no idea it was a thing before that.

Question: Nasa want to send a wind-powered robot to Jupiter. How does this work when there's no wind in space?
Answer: There's no wind in space, but there's wind in Jupiter's atmosphere, just like there's wind here on Earth. The probe will reach Jupiter the same way that other probes have been sent to planets before.

Question: The feeling in my throat when im holding back tears
Answer: When you're about to cry, your brain detects that your body is under stress. It automatically sends signals out into your nervous system, including one to **increase air intake**.

The opening in your throat that leads down to your lungs gets wider, to accommodate deeper breathing and so on. The shaking feeling is possibly down to your swallowing muscles spasming against the opening muscles.

Question: how can animated shows, like the simpsons, be cranked out episode after episode so fast?
Answer: They're all being worked on simultaneously. This way, every episode is in the same stage of production at the same time which greatly cuts down the amount of chaos and time spent in total. How do you think shows that are Netflix originals can release all the episodes at once? It's kind of the same thing but on TV, they spread the episodes out weekly. I understand why they use to do it but now I feel like a week is too long to wait inbetween episodes. I guess that's why traditional TV is failing....

Question: Why is there such a huge gender gap among Wikipedia editors?
Answer: I had no idea this was true.  

It suggests a problematic bias in Wikipedia.

Question: We have 4G on phones and tablets that allows us to access the internet anywhere, so why can't we have the same for laptops?
Answer: You can. You can get 4g dongles for them. You have to sign up to a data plan for it and away you go.

Presumably they are not usually built into laptops because most people use laptops where WiFi is available.

Question: The proper technique for caring for your teeth.
Answer: I work in a dental office.

*You should brush at least twice a day. 
*A soft bristled tooth brush is recommended because the bristles can flex more than a hard bristled brush.
*The "proper" brushing technique they taught us in school is the "modified bass technique" when I'm sure you can find videos of.
*You should floss at least twice a day before brushing. I know that it is hard and sometime unrealistic.
*If its hard for you to floss at night right before bed because you are tired try to floss earlier in the day some flossing is better then none.
*Make sure when you are flossing you are not just sticking the floss between your teeth. You have to actually try to scrape the yucky stuff off your teeth.
*Bleeding gums is actually caused by not flossing enough, the more you floss the less bleeding you will have.
*Using a mouth wash twice a day can also help kill germs that cause bad breath. But if you use a mouth wash that has alcohol it can dry out your mouth. 
* You should also brush your tongue and roof of your mouth.

Floss, brush, and rinse at least twice a day after meals. Use a soft bristle tooth brush or an electric tooth brush :)

P.S. I tried to make this a list but when I pressed reply it didn't look like a list anymore thats why there are all those little stars. Sorry, I clearly don't know how to type.

Question: What is happening inside the brain during lucid dreaming?
Answer: Dreaming is kind of like an altered state of consciousness. You're still conscious, but you're dreaming, and there's different areas of the brain that are activated and other parts that are shut down.

Being drunk is a good example: when you're drunk you fall a few levels down the consciousness scale, physiologically and mentally. You say weird things, you lose your inhibitions, your blood pressure slows down and your heating/cooling mechanisms get wonky. I know when I'm drunk I get these feelings of 'coming to' like suddenly you're aware. Or people get blackout drunk and don't remember anything even though it did happen. Some drugs do this to an even bigger extent. 

There's not been a super lot of research on it, but I reckon it's the same. You're low on the consciousness scale, but you can still be self-aware. The areas when you're REM-sleeping (time most likely for lucid dreaming to occur) there's a lot of brain activity going on, and from what I remember there are only slight differences from an 'awake' brain during REM sleep.

I've lucid dreamed a bit and there was no difference when I realized I was sleeping, and I could even feel myself lying in bed. It was super weird. Weirder even is that I forgot about it a few seconds later. Like a brief second of "Woah, I'm in a dream bathroom." and then I was just regular dreaming again.

Question: Why Don't I Have Nightmares Anymore?
Answer: More recent research shows that dreams and nightmares are a playground for your mind to play out scenarios so you can "learn" to react. Basically, your mind is having a dream or nightmare based on your awake moments. This "database" for a lack of a better word is used to build the dreams and nightmares. If your database contains lots of frightful thoughts it will play out a nightmare scenario but the older you get the better you are at coping with dangerous or unexpected situation. For example, if you are young and have never met a wolf face to face you may have a nightmare about it in which you run until you get away or are killed. Either way you wake up and the next time you have that dream you should be better equipped to handle the situation. Maybe after actually coming face to face with a wolf you can understand that the fear can be resolved by not running but by using the solution your used in real life. I'd say nightmares arise from unresolved stressed. Your brain is just trying to help you resolve them through scenario play so you can find a solution when awake.

Question: Chemically, how does water stop fire from burning?
Answer: Two ways

Firstly, fire needs heat, water absorbs and disperses heat really well.

Secondly, fire needs oxygen, waters oxygen is really hard for fire to get ahold of, amf it stops free oxygen in the air from reaching the fire.

Question: The legality of marijuana in US states.
Answer: The federal constitution clearly states that states cannot override federal law. States can be more restrictive, but cannot allow something the federal government says is illegal.

The decriminalization of marijuana by the states is illegal. The federal government has marched their forces in to arrest and shut down operations, but so far on a very small scale.

Public opinion is clearly in favor of decriminalization and limiting resources spent on the "war on drugs". States are slowly telling the federal government to fuck off, illegally decriminalizing, and not wasting resources on john doe pot smoker. It's a protest. The federal government lacks the resources to enforce the law no one but the lobbyists want.

Yep. Our federal government is so fucked that nearly equally fucked state governments are protesting.

Question: when someone has a higher alcohol tolerance than someone else, what’s the difference on a molecular level?
Answer: There's these tiny little molecules in your body that break alcohol down into not-alcohol (alcohol dehydrogenase). some people have more of these little worker buddies than others. A lot of it is genetic. Old people have less.

Question: How is it possible for Cam Newton to pay a 198.8% tax rate, as claimed by Forbes?
Answer: He's not paying all of those taxes on his Super Bowl winnings. He's paying taxes on his normal salary too. And his normal salary is about $20 million a year, so even a small fraction of that is more than what winning the Super Bowl pays.

The article's point is that, if he *weren't* playing in the Super Bowl in California, he wouldn't have to pay California state taxes.

Question: The difference between the processor and memory of a computer?
Answer: **Like you're 5**:

Processor - does the sums.

Memory - is the paper on which the sums are written.

Question: [META] Concerning Explanations.
Answer: can you give me example? because everything i see here is simplified as far it can be.

Question: why are gas prices going down so quickly?
Answer: They always do this time of year...

Colder weather climates require a different fuel octane ratio or a car wouldn't be able to start. The increase in regular gas lowers the demand and therefore the price.

Question: Climate change, how is the earth warming, and making some parts colder at the same time?
Answer: Climate change can, among other things, alter prevailing trends in global wind currents. For instance, some studies in Europe have suggested that the loss of sea ice could contribute to a phenomenon where artic air currents predominate more steadfastly over Northern Europe than they do now.

So even though the Earth as a whole is getting warmer, the immediate consequence for Britain, for instance, is that they'd be getting 'slightly warmer arctic air' which is still a heck of a lot colder than the 'slightly warmer temperate air' they currently get.

Question: How come the British colonization of Ireland was able to spread the English language but not religion?
Answer: It did spread religion. England was originally Catholic, and they spread that Catholicism to Ireland. Then, during the rule of Henry the 8th, England split from the Catholic church, so that Henry could get divorced and remarried. That's how you get the Church of England.

Question: why does a coke machine sometimes give me 2 cans instead of one?
Answer: It's just a basic cost-risk trade-off.  A more accurate machine costs more money than a less accurate machine.  Soda is cheap, so giving one out for free every once in a while is less costly than buying the expensive machine.

That being said, If you are regularly getting 20 cokes from the machine it is likely in a state of disrepair.

Question: How do UV lamps dry nail polish?
Answer: There are groups of materials that react in a specific way to certain circumstances. Sometimes it's water, sometimes it's air, sometimes its light etc.
It's mostly related to the way the material is built, internal structure, how particles are arranged and connected.

In this case, there is a substance called photoinitiator added to the gel. Photoinitiators react when exposed to certain wavelengths of UV lights.

This means that when just a right type of light come in, it fiddles with particles inside the materials and forces them to throw out a part of them called electrons(or putting it more simply just emiting a certain type of energy). When those electrons are thrown out, they start to react with actual gel, causing what is called a polymerization rection.

Thanks to that additional energy, the molecules(the very small parts in the material) start to form chains. So instead of just floating around, molecules start to connect together in large groups, which makes the material solid instead of liquid.

Question: Why if our body temperature is 98.6* do we sweat and feel hot if it is 90* outside?
Answer: There are lots of chemical reactions going on inside your body at any given time, and most of them generate heat. In fact, since your body is thick and solid (as these things go), and made mostly of water (which holds heat very well), you generate enough heat raise your body temperature above 98.6 easily.

Much like a computer, you need a heat sink to keep yourself from warming up beyond what you're designed to handle. That heat sink is your skin. But in order for a heat sink to work, there has to be a pretty big difference between the temperature it's trying to cool and the temperature it's bleeding that heat into.

The body is designed to function most easily at around what we call 'room temperature.' We set it at that *because* it's easy to maintain without extra work, and it's therefore comfortable. Below that, you start getting cold, and your body kicks into gear to produce more heat. At the extreme it will cause you to shiver, because muscle contractions produce a *lot* of heat. When it's warmer than that, your body can't shed enough heat to keep your internal temperature right, so it has to go into sweat mode to get rid of more.

Question: do vegetables, or meats take longer to digest, and why?
Answer: Digestion is the process of breaking up food into a form that can be absorbed by your body. There are 3 major groups that we distinguish in the type of the food we digest. Sugars, proteins and fats. Both meats and vegetables can contain all 3 of them and depending on the type of the meat or vegetable in different amounts. Sugars are the easy ones - you start breaking them up in your mouth with enzymes in your saliva. Try to chew a piece of bread crust for a few minutes, you should start to feel sweet taste because big and tasteless sugars are broken up to a sweeter and smaller - easier to digest mono-sugars. Proteins are also quite easy to digest, you digest them and sugars in your stomach. But it still takes a bit longer to digest proteins than sugars. The hardest thing to digest are fats because they are insoluble in water and they have to be emulgated first - broken up to drops so small that their surface area is big enough to be digested. 

EDIT:
There are vegetables that will take much longer to digest than almost fat free meat and there are vegetables that will be digested a few times quicker than a fatty steak so the answer is... it depends.

Question: The difference between 4WD HI and 4WD LO.
Answer: 4 Low is a lower gear set, for when you need more power. You're using a gear set that moves more pulling power to the tires, in exchange for extremely limited speed.

4 high is a higher gear set, for when you want power to all 4 tires, but don't want to be as limited in your speed.

It's the 4WD equivalent of first and second gear vs drive or higher gears.

Question: If there isn't such thing as a sugar high, then what causes you to act hyper after eating candy or drinking a can of coke?
Answer: [Peer pressure and placebo, mostly.](_URL_0_) Similar experiment involving non-alcoholic beer produced "tipsy" people even though the drinks contained absolutely no alcohol.



Look at people who drink vitamin water/fruit juices which contain almost as much sugar yet don't act hyper since they believe they aren't drinking sugar.

Question: Why do computers, as they get older, slow down even if there are no viruses/spyware on them?
Answer: Computers don't get slower. Badly written OSs get slower. This is particularly a problem with Windows OSs but it is not confined to them. Its just more prevalent in them because of the architecture of the constantly updated shared libraries and registry. There are a couple of things that slow down windows machines over time: 1) additional updates adding bug fixes and new features which take more resources than the original 2) a growing registry that is not properly cleaned up as applications and the applications updates are added then removed. 3) backwards compatibility, windows libraries are always changing and in order for older apps to function the old versions of libraries have to be kept as new ones are added this adds to the resources used and the size of the registry.

Yes if you were to do a complete restore and then not do the updates and not install any applications it would be just as fast. However you would be foolish not to do the updates as they are there to correct problems and protect the computer from exploits discovered over time. You probably couldn't function like that. The app you bought last week wouldn't work because it expects .NET 45 not .NET 12 that came with the OS. As soon as you put the computer on the internet some malicious web site (that porn site you use) is going to take advantage of the lack of updates and install spyware/malware which itself will slow down the machine.

Question: Why do movie studios disclose everything about their movies' budgets and revenue but game studios don't do the same for their games?
Answer: Movie studios generally don't disclose everything about their budgets. The stuff you see is just a publicly releasable number regarding an approximation of the production cost of the movie.  Thats just one aspect of the overall process, and its a fundamental part of the movie processes, so its often a pretty well known number, its not secret.

Now, the rest of the money involved in making the movie, marketing it, distributing it, paying people out, all of that... well, you *never* see that publicly, ever. 

Game studios are unrelated.  Movies are unique beasts.  Asking why a game studio doesn't do this is like why asking  the grocery store how much it costs to sell you milk.

Question: How does Hand Sanitizer work, and how effective is it?
Answer: The active ingredient in most hand sanitizers is is isopropyl alcohol, which works by disrupting the lipid structure in cell membranes.  It's also quite effective against common viruses since they are usually enveloped in a phospholipid shell as well.

It's [quite effective](_URL_0_) with some caveats.

Question: Why do phones need SIM cards? Do they actually allow connection or are they just data storages?
Answer: Well 'need' is a strong word. Technically they don't need one, and they can make a 911/999/112 call just fine without one if they're in range of a tower.

Your carrier requires it because it's a means of authentication. It's reasonably secure for use as an identification. The SIM is how the network knows your phone from the others, and how it knows to bill your account for the usage.

They could move to other means of doing the same thing, but I don't really see the point. It's really convenient for some people that you can just take one SIM out and put in another at-will. People that are regularly in different countries could just keep an account open with two carriers and swap their SIM to use the account for their current country for example.

Question: why planets rotate on a flat plain?
Answer: The solar system was developed from a cloud of gas.  That cloud of gas condensed and started to spin for whatever reason (gravimetrics are very interesting.)

The condensing and spinning flattened out the cloud.  The center became the sun, and the remainder of the cloud that wasn't taken into the sun became the 8 major planets of the solar system, all in the same plane that the original gas cloud condensed and spun into.

Now, interestingly enough, Uranus, the 7th planet, is tilted almost 90 degrees to the plane of it's orbit.  It sort of 'rolls' around the solar system, instead of spinning like a top.  This is due to some event in it's history.  It is suspected some sort of collision, but we really don't actually know.  We can only theorize.  It still orbits similar to the other 7 planets.

Question: Why is Indonesia's lung cancer rate so low (58th) despite the incredibly high smoking rate there (80.2% of males)
Answer: The average life expectancy in Indonesia is about 70 to 71 years, according to Google.
Also, according to google, the average age of diagnosing Cancer is about 70. Also, 2 out of 3 People that are diagnosed with lung cancer are above 65 years old, according to google.

People in Indonesia just die earlier, before they get lung cancer.

Edit:
As many people said, they don't die before they get lung cancer, they die before they are diagnosed with lung cancer, a bad wording on my part. Of course there are many factors that come into play, like the actual rate of diagnosing lung cancer. But much of it simply comes down to the age of death.

Question: How come skin cancer stays in your body?
Answer: Sun damage hits various parts of the skin and predisposes you to skin cancer (of various kinds). The most common are basal cell carcinomas that don't often invade to become malignant. But can come back. There are also genetic factors and past history factors that can make them more likely to recur (like having a history of really bad sunburns growing up) or having genetic traits that can make it more likely to happen. 

Skin cancer is a result of abnormal cell growth. Your cells in your skin are always growing and shedding the outer layer. So the cells on the bottom layer that start growing have a chance to have damaged DNA or the predisposing trait within them, and change into a cancer. This is why they seem to appear out of nowhere.

Question: Why are electric cars and hybrids, which have more powerful motors, quieter than power drills and blenders?
Answer: The power tools and such might be using brushed motors which are notoriously louder than the brushless design I would imagine a serious car would use.

Question: For this year's U.S. election, why are some states considered "battleground" states?
Answer: Others have talked about how many states are either strongly republican or strongly democratic, making the few that could go either way more important.  

But what's alluded to but understated is the significance of the "winner take all" approach that applies to all but two states. If a state is likely to be 60% democratic and 40% republican, and there's little or no chance to change that to 50/50, then that means the 60% democrats will result in 100% of the electoral votes going to the democratic candidate. There's simply no value in the republicans investing time or money there if it's clear that the best they'll be able to do might be 45% of the vote. And likewise for a state that's 60% republican. 

Thus they put the most effort into the state's that are close to 50/50.

Question: Why do classic arcade machines have players look at the screen through a mirror rather than looking directly at the monitor?
Answer: Those monitors were HUGE.  If they had put them facing you, the back of the machine would have poked out really far, so they put them in the bottom, reversed the image (so everything wouldn't be backwards), aimed them up and have you look at the reflection.  Basically, they did it to save space.

Question: How come prisoners in supermax prisons where they're not allowed to talk to anybody don't all go crazy?
Answer: They do. It's a real issue, solitary confinement causes massive mental trauma on those inflicted by it.

Question: What is adrenaline and why does it do what it does?
Answer: I'll defer to Wikipedia for a good explanation of all the hormonal goodness of epinephrine/adrenaline: _URL_0_

But in terms of the average human not being able to flip cars for fun, think of your body just like any other machine, a car for instance. You can get great performance out of your car by driving it unsafely and pushing it past its design specifications. After a while, you'll see the engine start to break down after being revved too much. The fact that your body MAY be able to lift a car indicates the exact 100% physical capacity of that machine (just like trying to drag race in your Toyota Corolla). There are many mechanisms in your body that prevent your muscles from developing this maximum force in order to prevent your body from tearing itself apart. In true "fight or flight" situations, your body releases more of this reserve since the options are between ripping apart your joints (which gives you a chance at survival) or certain death.

Question: Why do accents exist, and how did they develop
Answer: Going back hundreds of years a lot of people would never go more than a few miles from home. Communities tended to keep to themselves.

So throw in a language to two communities that are a distance apart, fast forward the clock through decades and centuries, wouldn't it be even stranger if - after all that time - the two communities evolved the way they spoke in exactly the same way? Yes. So they end up talking differently.

It's not the only factor. I live in the UK. Our island has been conquered many times, but often the conquering people only managed to take control of certain areas, not the whole British Isles, so the way the conquering people spoke had a major influence in some areas but far less influence in the areas they didn't touch.

Often when communities have different accents they have a fair few different words for things also.

Question: How and why inflation works the way it does
Answer: I did explain in another thread quite recently how it works. Inflation is what follows when the money market and the goods market isn't in its balance. That happens when more money is printed, than new goods are created. By printing massive amounts of money, while all goods together stay on the same level your money will become less worth. You can think of it from a supply and demand perspective. If there is only one pear on the market but hundreds of apples, your pear will be worth many apples (when there is demand, but lets just assume everyone likes pears more than apples). Now just assume your apples arent apples anymore but money, then your money would be worth much less than the pear. However if you switch that around and you have more pears then money, your money would be way more worth than the pear. 
As for deflation, it happens. One good example is japan at this time. Deflation is "uglier" for the economy than inflation (if there is the normal inflation rates and no super inflation) - since the consumer will not consume anymore but safe his money. Because why not? You can almost guarantee that your money will become worth more tomorrow, if you just wait. So better don't buy anything today, but tomorrow, as it will be cheaper. And with that there are no real investments which go into the economy, hence the economy crashes much easier than it would do by inflation. 

Edit (comment on another topic - why dont countries just print money to pay for debts):

 >  As stated below, it would cause a massive inflation if you just print out money in an uncontrolled way. E.g. Germany did do so in the 1920's, which caused a massive inflation. People would get their money and not even one hour later it was worth the half. That caused the german economy to move back from printed money, so that most of the people would trade goods again, until a new currency was introduced. It did help to pay for the damages of WWI however, since you had to pay billions of Mark (old currency and fictive amount of money) which was then less than a few cents. Since that point on you can't just pay your country debts by printing new money, since the inflation is calculated into the contracts (history teaches, at least money wise). As for the act itself, there has to be balance between money and goods. Once you start printing huge amounts of money, your goods will be "worth" much much more of that currency, since the amount of goods still remains the same, but the amount of money has increased. Otherwise, if the amount of goods increase and the amount of money stays the same your goods will have a lower price (since money is now worth more). Hope that answers your question.
As for todays biggest inflation, just take a look at zimbabwe, _URL_0_ heres a picture which shows the inflation of the Z$ vs. the €.

Question: Why does putting salt on a slug kill it?
Answer: >  I'm comfortable with the idea of diffusion (by which I understand that, due to the continued random movement of particles, a given substance will spread out in a fluid until there is no concentration gradient in the container).

This is the key to understanding osmosis, along with the idea that **water is no exception to this rule**.  The salt ions will try to move from one side of the slug's skin to the other until they're evenly distributed ... but they can't, because the slug's skin doesn't allow salt to cross.  But the skin doesn't block the movement of water molecules, and they behave just like the salt: they move from one side of the slug's skin to the other until they're equal in concentration.  The salty slime on the skin has a *lower concentration* of water than the inside of the slug, so water moves outward to make the concentrations equal.

Question: Why do stars twinkle if the light we're seeing is from thousands of years ago and most things aren't big enough to block its light?
Answer: Stars twinkle due to atmospheric interference.  If you've ever seen "heat waves" shimmering above a road, you're seeing a similar principle at work.  Gasses can cause interference with light passing through them.  In the case of a twinkling star, you're seeing the atmosphere scattering the light as it passes through.

Question: how the website Kickstarter works and how it helps people who want to use it.
Answer: ok, if someone has (what they think) is a good idea, but no money to fund creation or production of said idea. what they usually do is to find investors, people that will give you money to fund your project in return for a slice of your profits.

what kickstarter lets you do is to get funding directly from the people who want your service or product, before you've even made it.

so traditional method is investors money goes to creator, creator makes his product/service, customers pay for the product/service and the money goes to creator, then the investor gets a percentage of the customer's money.

kickstarter cuts out the investors, in the kickstarter model: customers pay for product/service and money goes to creator, creator makes product/service, the product/service is released to customers.

it works very nicely, because sometimes there is a product or service someone wants to make, but cant secure investors to fund it for him. kickstarter allows people to fund it directly if they think its a good idea, rather than it relying on the whims of investors

Question: If person A saves person B's life through CPR but person B's rib gets broken during chest compressions, why is person B able to sue person A? Why doesn't the judge through the case out of court?
Answer: Person B can sue, but the judge will always throw the case out. Except in rare circumstances where evidence proves beyond a reasonable doubt that there was gross negligence or malicious intent. Which, let's be honest, if someone wanted someone dead all they'd have to do is NOT perform cpr.

Source:EMT

Question: How are professional rugby players able to tolerate such physical punishment seemingly with little injury where as soccer, basketball and protected American football players seem to have devastating injuries quite frequently?
Answer: As a rugby player I'll give my thoughts but they aren't science backed or anything. When you play rugby you learn how to take an impact without getting injured. You learn how to fall correctly and brace before you get hit. If you watch some "big hit compilations" on YouTube you will see that there is plenty of injuries, mostly stemming from the recipient of the tackle not being prepared to be tackled. 

football is similar but i think the injuries occur because the pads allow you to lose some of the fear of being hit, or hitting someone, at high speed. So the collisions are at a higher speed.

Question: Why do companies trap the back button? How can making it very difficult to get off a page be good for their site?
Answer: without running such a site, I assume that these overtly obtrusive sites are only in it to make a dime once.  They dont expect you to return (atleast not intentionally) but they will get as many page loads as they can while you are there.

Question: Why did Russia invade Ukraine?
Answer: Ukraine had a pro-Russian president Viktor Yanukovych who sparked massive protests when he turned down a deal that would have brought Ukraine closer to the EU in favor of closer ties with Russia.

After he fled the country, a new, more pro-Western government was elected that promptly signed that deal. Putin's regime, seeing Ukraine as a necessary buffer and viewing Ukraine not entering NATO and the EU as a vital national interest, launched a covert war of aggression in the East of the country (where there are lot's of Russian speakers and pro-Russian sentiment is higher) and engineering the annexation of Crimea. The goal was essentially to throw Ukraine into chaos and prevent it from being able to get its shit together and be able to join NATO or the EU. Putin has done this kind of thing in other places like Georgia and Moldova as well.

Question: How it is made that cars speedometer's arrow shows the car's speed at crash moment?
Answer: This isn't something speedometers do. Many cars now though do have black boxes that record the speed at moment of impact. It can do this because its a computer that records data as it happens and then can sense a crash via sensors.

Question: Our cell phones update our pictures and contacts to the cloud, why can't a planes black box do the same?
Answer: Because it lost contact.  The point of the black box is to store information *after* the plane loses contact.  All of the pertinent information prior to losing contact is already transmitted.

Question: Public vs. Private Citizenship in America
Answer: If you're talking about the sovereign citizen types, who claim that you aren't bound by tax or other laws, there **isn't** a way to do it, and trying it will get you fined or sent to jail when you break one of those laws they supposedly aren't bound by.

It's a scam, pure and simple.  Up here in Canada, they call themselves 'freemen on the land', but the claims are pretty much the same as in the US, and they tie the courts up with ridiculous litigation and paperwork here too.  A judge in Alberta actually used a decision a couple of years ago [to write a hugely detailed explanation](_URL_0_) of how they work, what their arguments are, etc, in an effort to educate other judges in Canada and the US in how to deal with these...er...odd people (I'm trying to be charitable here).  Anyway, the takeaway is that they are scammers, and should be ignored.

Question: Why do humans think other sentient beings would use radio signals to communicate with other intelligent life?
Answer: Most of scientists who are looking for other species, accept that other species might use other methods of communication but since WE don't have access to those methods, radio is our best option.

The scientists looking for radio waves aren't expecting all other life to use radio waves but they are hoping that if we stumbled upon radio as one of the best ways to transmit long distances, then it's logical to assume that someone else might have stumbled upon it as well.

Additionally radio is a relatively low tech solutions so they are also hoping that, even if this imaginary race moved beyond radio waves to something else, they might recognize that others haven't advanced that far and still use radio to send a message.

There's no denying that it could all be a waste of time though but until we are able to detect other signals that are capable of traveling hundreds of light years it's the best option we have to find other life.

Question: Why are so many people dying building in Qatar?
Answer: Largely because it is really really hot and while local regulations state that workers shouldn't work during the hottest hours of the day that has been forgotten regarding the workers from abroad. That combined with long hours and general hard labour is leading to lots of people dying of exhaustion.

Question: What happens to our social media accounts when we die?
Answer: I can't speak for the others, but Facebook actually has a feature where you can have your account 'memorialized' or permanently deactivated in the event of death. With a memorialized account you can link another account, friend, relative, whatever, and they're given some control of your account; they can't read your messages or delete anything you've already posted, but they can change your profile picture, respond to friend requests, and change your profile/cover photo.

Question: Why doesn't taxidermied animals rot like other dead animals?
Answer: A) Because the gut is removed, which contains the bacteria that cause the body to rot in the first place and B) because the skin is embalmed to prevent it from rotting.

Question: The drug levothyroxine for Hypothyroidism.
Answer: Levothyroxine increases your overall metabolic rate and thus, helps your body manage fat better.  It shouldn't have any effect on muscle gain, assuming you eat enough to ensure your body doesn't start metabolizing protein/muscle for energy.  Having greater than normal amount of thyroxine in the body can have several bad effects:
1.  Higher metabolic rate = faster rate of heart beating = bad for heart.
2.  Possible, but rare, TSH/TRH resistance

Thyroxine is controlled by a beautiful cascade of hormones starting from the pituitary through the hypothalamus.  Messing with that balance can cause TSH/TRF resistance to build up in the body, leading to a lot of trouble.

Stick to the dosage your doctor prescribed and have frequent follow-ups to ensure your dosage is the amount your body requires.

Question: How do phones like the Nokia Lumia charge wirelessly?
Answer: This is called '[Inductive Charging](_URL_0_)'.

What happens is that the charging station uses electricity creates a vibrating magnetic field.  In the phone (or other device), this vibrating magnetic field causes a electricity to flow within a coil. That electricity charges the batteries.

The principle is is to use some process which allows for electricity to be turned into another thing, and that thing is then turned back into electricity.  In this case, that's a magnetic field.  A vibrating magnetic field causes a electricity to flow within a coil of wire, just as a coil of wire causes a magnetic field when electricity flows through it.

These two coils combine to form a transformer. It's the same thing that exists on dozens of the large black plugs you plug into the wall to power all kinds of things (cordless phones, radios, etc).  The only difference here is that instead of the transformer being contained in one plastic box, the two halves exist in different devices, but when brought close enough together, they can still function.

Question: Why aren't shampoos and soap used interchangeably, and how do those shampoo-body all-in-one soap work?
Answer: IIRC shampoos and soaps have different levels of hardness. You CAN use regular soap on your hair, but it'll treat your hair more harshly than shampoo.

Question: Why aren't more electronics waterproof?
Answer: It is significant extra expense and engineering challenge for something most users don't need. Most of your life is in a dry environment, why spend a lot of work so you can dunk your laptop in the tub?

Question: why is it more instinctual to hold our breaths while lifting something heavy, than it is to breath properly?
Answer: when lifting an heavy object, your body needs to become rigid enough to lift such object. So you start tensing your muscles to create a strong enough structure capable to lift.

Breathing involve the diaphragm to expand and retract the rib cage. in order to do so, the upper chest needs to be "soft" enough to allow the contraction and expansion. This goes against the "rigid" stance that is needed to lift the heavy object and this is why we stop breathing while lifting.

Question: What is a citizens arrest?
Answer: > Police Officer here. A citizen's arrest is when a misdemeanor, such as a battery, theft, or trespassing is not committed in an officer's presence, and the victim wishes to have the person arrested.

 > Misdemeanors are classified as crimes that carry a penalty of 1 year in jail or less, theft, battery, trespassing. Felonies  are crimes which carry a penalty of over 1 year in jail or prison, murder, rape, assault with a deadly weapon, and burglary to name a few. Officers can arrest on any felony at any time, and citizens, which I highly suggest against doing, can DETAIN/HOLD any person at any time for committing a felony until the police arrive.

 > There are certain misdemeanor's that officers can arrest for at any time. These include: domestic violence, crimes committed by a juvenile, DUIs, hit and run accidents.

 > The most common citizen arrests come from the guys working retail security and lost prevention. As soon as you shoplift something out of a store and they detain you, they are placing you under a citizen's arrest. The police will show up and complete the booking process for them.

 > A typical scenario is you see someone steal your child's $200 bicycle off of your front yard. You chase them and tackle them to the ground. Since the officers weren't there and it is a misdemeanor crime not committed in their presence, you can either have the officers file a police report where a detective will follow up with you or, place the person under a citizen's arrest.

 > Real world advice. Don't ever place anyone under a citizen's arrest no matter how much you hate them for what they have done. The city attorneys are notorious for dropping cases for lack of foundation and you are opening yourself up for a lawsuit by the person you placed a citizen's arrest on.

 > Thank you to whoever gifted me Reddit Gold, I truly appreciate it.


_URL_0_

Question: How can animals tell the difference between play and attacking?
Answer: I work at a dog daycare facility and a huge part of my job is breaking up play when it starts to border on fighting. Essentially it comes down to the energy or intensity level. Each animal has a level of intensity or roughhousing that they are comfortable with/ naturally bring to the table when they start to play. A lot of times you will have one (usually younger) more energetic dog and a less energetic dog. They start off playing and everything goes well but then the puppy (having boundless energy and no sense of when "enough is enough") gets more and more aggressive until the other dog becomes overwhelmed, or is in pain. Then the body language and energy changes instantly and either the overzealous offender backs off or teeth and claws come into play. 

Basically that threshold is different for every animal and every animal will get along with some playmates and not with others. This seems to be true cross-species as well. One of my horses loves to hang around the dogs around while my more shy horse is bloody terrified of them and will kick at them if they approach her. 

The way that this difference between "we're playing" and "shit's about to go down" is typically decided is via the body language, vocalizations and energy (i.e. emotional intensity and focus) of the animals. Now before you call me out for saying that animals respond to "energy", bear in mind that body language is the primary means of communication for most non-verbal creatures, and so it stands to reason that they are VERY keenly tuned into it. This means that while a human may only be able to see obvious signs like bared teeth, animals are used to paying attention to much subtler changes like where the eyes of the other animal are, how their breathing changes, which muscles they're tensing, what they are focusing on, etc. People can learn to tune into this too and in fact that's how most "horse whisperers" or "dog whisperers" get their edge.

Question: Why does it seem like all of Africa is politically unstable?
Answer: Many African countries are quite stable, but there are a lot of African countries so the number of unstable ones in Africa can seem high.

Much of Africa was also under colonial rule at some point until this century; as a result their borders got drawn somewhat arbitrarily, artificially dividing and grouping cultures and religions, and they had to create new governments after the colonial rulers pulled out. All that combined means that, in some sense, Africa today is politically in the spot where Europe was a few hundred years ago.

Question: What happens--physiologically-speaking--when someone returning to riding a bicycle builds up immunity(?) to being saddle-sore?
Answer: A few things. Just like you form calluses on your toes, heals, hands, etc. Your tissue also toughens in response to the added stress targeted in that area. Your sensory also becomes a bit dulled as use goes on just like you get used to wearing glasses for example.

Question: Facebook application request limit reached
Answer: Welp, i was just directed here after a search, glad to know, this is more of a widespread issue.  Hoping it'll get fixed

Question: Why does a broken mirror show many tiny images instead of one image with lots of cracks?
Answer: The glass is all pointing in slightly different directions, and so the light reflected off of each little surface is coming from a different place before being reflected to your eye.

Question: What would happen if a nuke were to explode in space (not low atmosphere)?
Answer: Let's assume we're dealing with an early Cold War ICBM for our nuke. The explosion would go off just fine. It wouldn't resemble a mushroom cloud, though. That has to do with gravity and air currents. It would look relatively spherical. Anything in the immediate blast radius would be damaged quite a bit, less than you might expect on earth, though. Especially at greater (more than the fireball) range. This is because there isn't a shockwave of air to damage things. If there was nothing nearby the radiation would be the other issue but that's less than you might imagine. There's EM radiation like X Rays and Gamma Rays and also the less harmful varieties like visible light. These will be less damaging with distance, however. There's also alpha and beta decay, that's a shower of helium nuclei, electrons and neutrinos. Imagine the helium nuclei like little bits of sand, they can run into things and even penetrate surfaces that seem solid but they can't do that much damage at this scale. The electrons are the EMP (all nuclear weapons are EMP) and would probably be the only thing to worry about after a few miles. As you mentioned a detonation directly outside our atmosphere would cause a northern lights style aurora and possibly mess with ground electronics. Of course this diminishes with distance. The neutrinos are too small and inert to really affect anything. Space ships have to have radiation shielding, there's a lot of all these kinds of radiation in space, so outside of immediate blast area it should be fine. A higher yield weapon like a modern nuke or EMP could make the safe distance potentially hundreds of times further but with an old one you could probably watch from a few miles away. From thousands of miles away you would be just fine. The radiation spreads out in a sphere so every passing mile it gets more and more sparse.

Question: Why do clouds turn black when they are about rain?
Answer: Because they are holding a lot of water, so light can't get through them as easily.

Question: The Abramovic Method. (Specifically, as used in the new Lady Gaga Video)
Answer: It's Performance Art.

It doesn't sound like there's anything even *remotely* scientific about it; rather just her personal views on how to be 'more aware of your surroundings'.

Question: How does VOR aircraft navigation work?
Answer: Oh dear, I'm being summoned now! Thanks, doc_daneeka!

But yes, this question is right up my street. Although I'm not clear on whether you're interested in the electrical workings of the VOR, or how the pilot actually uses it, so here's a bit of information on both, and you can ask for more detail if you need it.

A VOR is a VHF radio transmitter. It transmits two different signals. The reference signal is sent out in all directions. The variable signal is directional, and is transmitted by a lighthouse-like rotating transmitter (older VORs used to physically rotate, but modern ones do this function electronically, and don't have any moving parts).

The interference pattern between the two signals varies, depending on which direction you are from the VOR (and therefore what part of the repeating pattern of the reference signal is interfered with by the variable signal).

On the aircraft, this is decoded to work out the position of the aircraft.

There are at least three different ways of displaying this information to the pilot.

The [Omni Bearing Selector, or OBS](_URL_0_) allows the pilot to select which track he'd like to follow, either to or from the VOR, by rotating an outer ring. It shows a fly-left or a fly-right indication to the pilot, depending whether he is right or left of track. It has no knowledge of which way the aircraft is pointing, though, and the fly-left or fly-right indications are only intuitive if you're pointing the aircraft the correct way to start with.

The [Horizontal Situation Indicator, or HSI](_URL_1_) is similar to a direction indicator... but it incorporates a Course Deviation Indicator, a rotatable course arrow that shows the same indication as the OBS. Because this is built in to the HSI, and it rotates according to the aircraft's heading, it shows logically correct information regardless of which way the aircraft is pointing. Modern aircraft that have "glass cockpits" (all the instruments are displayed on a computer screen) will normally have a computer-generated version of this.

And finally, VOR information can be presented on a Remote Magnetic Indicator, or RMI - a direction indicator with an arrow which simply points to the VOR station. This requires much more practice to use correctly, but once it's mastered it's a very powerful tool since it gives useful information even when considerably off track.

(I'm aware I've used a little bit of jargon in here, because I'm guessing you know a little about flight instruments if you're asking the question. But I can explain any jargon that's not clear if you need me to - just ask.)

Question: Why Do Cars "Squat"
Answer: Because by applying torque to the drive shaft, differential, and then the rear wheels. There is a secondary reaction in the car's rear springs. They are "winding up", or "loading up". So for example, if you had stiffer competition springs, you'd notice less squat. On a front wheel drive car, this whole scenario takes place with the front wheels. The car lifts up in front.

You may be experiencing more squat as your shocks get older. Shocks fight compression of the rear springs. Weaker shocks let the springs compress more.

Question: How do those gel heatpack work?
Answer: They use a compound called sodium acetate - also sometimes known as 'hot ice'.  

It is a material that can easily be supercooled - taken well below it's melting point without solidifying again. When you click the disc on the handwarmer, this starts the gel crystallising/solidifying. At temperatures colder than 50-somethingºC it wants to be solid. As the bonds break and form to move from liquid to solid, they give off an excess of energy as heat (an exothermic process).  

When you boil the gel pack in water, the heat takes it back past its melting point to turn it from crystal back to liquid and the heat from the boiling is what provides that energy (endothermic process).

Question: How solar panels work
Answer: 2 layers of silicon crystals are laid on top of each other. One layer likes having extra electrons, the other layer likes giving up electrons. The sun's energy bounces electrons all over but in general they move towards the top layer causing a negative charge to build up and since it took those from the bottom, the bottom is positively charged. At that point its like a weak battery and just needs some metal leads to go to a motor our light or DC to AC inverter.

Question: Why can't I start my own nation?
Answer: It becomes recognized whenever other countries recognize it. That's not a satisfying answer, but it's the truth. Just ask Palestine. 

There are only two things stopping you from finding an island and starting the People's Democratic Free Opensource Republic of Doge: (1) finding an unclaimed island or (2) convincing a country to relinquish its claim on an island/convincing other countries to recognize your claim as superior to the existing country's claim. If you can get over either of those two things, please let me know and I will be your first Vice Dictator. 

You may want to check out seasteading if this interests you. The idea there is to build an island-ship you can float out to international waters and then declare it as your own country. Defense against other countries and bandits is an issue, but people have put a lot of thought into it.

Question: Why is such an emphasis placed on only a couple states during the U.S. presidential elections?
Answer: The "swing states".

Most states are typically majority conservative or liberal.  It's a waste of resources to go campaigning there.  The majority party wins all of the electoral votes. 

But certain states are very close to 50/50 splits.  These ones are worth a focus because a few points swing in voting makes a huge difference. 

(It's time to discard the electoral college and restore a popular vote, that's a discussion for another time)

Question: What is chloride in a hydration IV and why do you need it to be hydrated instead of just water, sodium, potassium, etc?
Answer: Simple answer is to maintain your blood's PH and isotonic balances. IV fluids are usually sodium chloride solution, .9 & #37;, which is the level that you would find in human blood.

WIthout the right balance, water would be an irritant and change the electrolyte levels in your body, causing potential problems with electrical transmissions in the brain and CNS. Similar for sodium, potassium, etc., all of which are toxic metals on their own. It's not until they bond with other atoms to form compounds (such as salt) that they lose most of their toxic effects on humans.

You can easily see the difference on the human body between a proper saline level and plain water. Get a neti pot, fill one with warm saline, and run it through your sinuses. No problem, right?

Now, repeat it with plain, warm water. Once your nose has stopped burning, you'll realize the difference a proper isotonic balance has on the human body.

Question: Why is it that we can consume substantially more liquid by weight than we can food?
Answer: Liquid is absorbed faster.  Water fastest of all as it needs 0 digestion.  Solid foods start chemical reactions and your body notices it and has to work before it can be advanced to the intestines.

Question: How did US voters figure out which presidential candidate was the best in the early days of America?
Answer: Mostly, they didn't, that's why the electoral college is a thing.  In Theory, you'd vote for the most intelligent/well informed guy from your county, and then he would go vote for the candidate he thought was best.  In practice, you voted for the delegate from your political party, and he would vote for whomever the party told him to.

Question: time dilation with an increase in speed
Answer: What you're asking about has to do with Einstein's Relativity, so here's the short explanation.

Einstein's theory of relativity states that time and velocity are relative to an observers point of view, or reference frame. His special theory is called such because it deals only with inertia reference frames which are reference frames that have no acceleration or change in gravitational potential. His general theory takes into account acceleration and gravity.

Special relativity is fairly easy to understand as the highest level math you need is Pythagoras's theorem. General relativity is a lot more complex math and not ELIF friendly.

Special relativity has two postulates, that the speed of light is constant and that the laws of physics don't change between reference frames. Both of these have been proven true. Using this, Einstein showed that moving observers actually have their time dilation and their length in the direction of motion contracted.

So lets talk about time dilation first. Imagine a clock that works by bouncing a photon between two mirrors. We the know the speed of light and we can measure the distance between the mirrors, this means the time it takes for the photon to bounce is easily calculated. Now what if we have that clock moving at a constant speed? Well the path we see the light take is not longer straight up and down, it's [slanted](_URL_3_). Since the light takes a longer path and the speed of the light is unchanged, this means that it takes a longer amount of time to bounce between the two mirrors. Viola, moving objects experience slower time. An important thing to note, because every observe is stationary in their own reference frame, every observer will see everything else as being dilated instead of themselves.
So if you're moving, you only experience slower time from someone else's point of view. However, you also see them as experiencing slower time, because to you they appear to be moving.

Now lets move on to length contraction. This one is a tricky one to explain. It relies on how length is measured correctly. Basically, in order to correctly measure the length of an object, you have to know the position of both its ends at the same time. This isn't too hard to do, but if an observer moving past you saw you do this they would think you messed up. Imagine you have a rod, and you have two friends at either end. You walk to a point equidistant to them and tell them to record their position at the moment they see you flash a light. Since you're equidistant, the light will reach them at the same time. However, to the moving observer the light won't reach your friends at the same time. They won't be synchronized and they'll see you as getting an incorrect measurement.

This leads to one of the last consequences of special relativity, the simultaneity of relativity. Because moving observers disagree on the timing and lengths of things, no two clocks can be synchronized in different reference frames.

[Minute Physics](_URL_0_) gives a **very** basic overview.

[Doc Physics](_URL_2_) gives a lengthy intro to SR.

[Sixty Symbols](_URL_1_) on length contraction.

Question: What happens when you "keep forgetting that guy's name" ?
Answer: You keep forgetting his name. That's it that's what happens.

Question: What is going on with the top post on /r/wallstreetbets? What will the stream be about?
Answer: There are two (main) ways to invest in stocks and shares - normally you buy them, and if the company makes a profit they give you a dividend, and you can sell the share if the compnay value goes up.

You can also 'short' a stock - that is bet that a share's value will go down.  You do this by borrowing some shares, selling them, and promising to buy some back for the person you borrowed them from.  If the company value goes down, you buy the shares back cheaper than you sold them and make a profit.  If the company value increases, you lose money.  It's possible to lose a lot more money than you intend.

There are more complex scenarios where you're simply betting on what the market will do (futures, derivatives, binary options, forex, etc).  These are straightforward gambling.

The post in question is someone who has shorted Apple stock, hoping their stock price will crash today.  If their stock price does crash, the person will become very rich, if not, they'll lose money.  If they get lucky they'll chalk it all up to skill, of they get unlucky they'll chalk it up to bad luck and irrational markets.

Question: if the cabin of a commercial airplane is pressurized why do I have to "pop" my ears while ascending and descending
Answer: Because the cabin is not pressurised to the equivalent of surface level. It is pressurised (in most cases) to the equivalent of around 8000' - significantly different pressure to the surface, but not so low as to be dangerous. As you climb or descend, the pressure inside the cabin gradually changes between surface pressure and 8000'.

Question: How do movies  &  music albums get leaked?
Answer: Many times it is leaked by either a store who sells the CD's or by early reviewers. The stores will always receive their copies before the release date so at any point it's in the inventory, it's subject to leaking.

Question: Is face blindness restricted to humans or is this something that's been observed in other species? Is it understood what causes it?
Answer: Not many animals rely primarily on sight to recognize others, and fewer still rely primarily on facial features.

I would imagine if it happens in animals, it is pretty uncommon and restricted to our closest animal relatives.

Question: The process of dry cleaning.
Answer: Check out the (wikipedia article) [_URL_0_] if you want to know more specifics but here is a TL;DR for the lazy.

The process is basically the same, the only difference is dry cleaning doesn’t use soap and water as the medium for dissolving dirt. It instead uses another liquid that is equally as adept as dissolving oil and dirt. Usually a non-polar carbon based liquid. This is because some fabrics tend to break down in the presence of water so using that is a bad idea. Other than that the process is the same as the washing machine in your house or local Laundromat.

Question: How do digital cameras know when an object is in focus?
Answer: You can tell if an image is in focus by looking for sharp edges. Out of focus objects that look blurry will not have sharp edges. 

The camera looks for sharp edges by scanning through the photo pixels and comparing each pixel to its neighbours. If a pixel is very different to its neighbours it is an 'edge'.

The auto-focus will cycle through the different focus settings by moving the lens in and out and select the setting that produces the most number of edges.

Question: The origin of "your mom" jokes.
Answer: according to recent archaeological finds, it seems to be from ancient Babylonian philosophy or writing students, about 3500 years ago. a tablet had a list of riddles, most condescending or conceptually funny at the time, such as:

The deflowered girl did not become pregnant. The undeflowered girl became pregnant. What is it?
Auxiliary forces.
translating to:
the non-virgin did not become pregnant, but the virgin did. what is it?
special forces.
(most likely referencing the virgin's lack of honesty and possibly applauding the suitor's bravery and tact in keeping it so secret)

{lost piece of tablet}...of your mother is by the one who has intercourse with her. What/who is it?
[No answer]
"{something something} is from someone willing to bed your mother. what is it?"
"..."

this is perhaps the strongest wit among them, because it's a meta-joke. every one has an answer, except the last. The lack of an answer, after reading the rest, is striking.

this could also mean it's the longest running memetic, or "meme", ever.

Question: If salt water is left alone does it separate into Na+ and Cl- ions?
Answer: Yes they do. Most salts, including NaCl, naturally dissociate into cations and anions in water. 

Looks like this:  _URL_0_

Question: What's so hard about taking CO2 out of the air and putting it in the ground?
Answer: You know how you get energy when you burn carbon? Well, if you want to split CO2 into carbon and oxygen, you have to put that energy back. Plants get this energy from the Sun. [Methods for replicating this process artificially](_URL_0_) are still an active area of research, not economical for widespread use yet.

Question: Why does every RV/Winnebago you see seem to be made by a different company? Is there like no consolidation in that sector?
Answer: What you're seeing on the side of the RV is the "brand" not the manufacturer. There are probably 20-ish big manufacturers that make 80% of the brands you see on the road.

Each manufacturer usually specializes in a particular "class" of RV, for instance Fleetwood makes almost exclusively Class A motor homes while Skyline makes Travel Trailers almost exclusively. Some make a bunch, though... Forest River RV makes just about everything.

Those three manufacturers sell over 35 brands of RV.

There has been some consolidation recently but the companies are usually small, niche, regional producers and most do custom builds.

Question: Why do some vegetarians eat fish?
Answer: They're not vegetarians, but because the term "pescatarian" isn't familiar to most people, they find it easier to describe themselves as vegetarians who eat fish.  

The obvious followup question is why do they eat fish if they're against eating animals.  Part of the answer is that some vegetarians aren't against eating animals, but are vegetarians because they think it's healthier, and they think that fish can be included in their diet and still be a healthy diet, according to their priorities and beliefs about healthy eating.

Others do it as a way to transition from a fully omnivorous diet to vegetarianism.

Finally, there are those who simply don't believe that the standards they have for ethical treatment of livestock and poultry simply don't apply to fish.

Question: When burning a CD, does a 4x vs a 1x write speed change the quality of the end product? Is there anything different about a 4x vs any other speed other than, speed?
Answer: I always thought this harkened back to the old days of CD burning, where buffer underruns occurred frequently.  A buffer was created for the data being burned, and if the buffer emptied before the burning process is complete, it would fail.

  Burning at a slower speed (1x) meant you didn't empty the buffer and cause problems. However if your PC could handle it, you could attempt to burn at faster speeds (4x).

Question: How do copyright laws work? How heavily are they enforced?
Answer: Copyright law is the idea that when people make creative content, they and they alone can decide who profits from it for a limited time.  Generally, this means that if you want to use content from something with copyright, ask first or be prepared for a lawsuit.  However, there is something called Fair Use in the United States, which says you can use copyrighted content if, according to the US Copyright Office, “quotation of excerpts in a review or criticism for purposes of illustration or comment; quotation of short passages in a scholarly or technical work, for illustration or clarification of the author’s observations; use in a parody of some of the content of the work parodied; summary of an address or article, with brief quotations, in a news report; reproduction by a library of a portion of a work to replace part of a damaged copy; reproduction by a teacher or student of a small part of a work to illustrate a lesson; reproduction of a work in legislative or judicial proceedings or reports; incidental and fortuitous reproduction, in a newsreel or broadcast, of a work located in the scene of an event being reported.”
For more information, CGP Grey made a fantastic video explaining this, and it includes his case for why it should be shorter: _URL_1_
US Copyright Office: _URL_0_

Question: Is there a reason we ejaculate in spurts rather than a continuous stream like peeing?
Answer: So imagine you have a turkey baster.  You have a certain amount of fluid in there that you want to get out.  If you squeeze it gently, you'll get a dribbling stream.  It doesn't go very far and a bunch is still left inside.

Now take that same turkey baster, and squeeze it hard.  The fluid shoots out and goes further, right?  But now you still have liquid left inside, so squeeze again.  Keep on doing this till all the liquid is out.  In the end, most of the liquid ends up further away from the tip.  If you really want to make sure everything is out, squeeze it a bunch more times.  Those are the dry contractions at the end of orgasm.

The volume of urine is a lot bigger than the volume of ejaculate.  So the urinary bladder contracts to squeeze out the urine, like squeezing a water balloon before you tie it closed.  That's why urine comes out in a stream, unless you're an unlucky sod who has prostate problems..  You have a lot less ejaculate than you do urine.

Question: When does a date become a girl/boyfriend?
Answer: Probably when the individuals involved start calling each other boyfriend/girlfriend. I don't think there's a solid definition beyond that.

Question: Why do people have different kinds of laughter?
Answer: Lots of factors. Some of them are physical - people have different pitched voices, different body sizes and differently-shaped insides, and that changes the way anything that comes out of their mouths sounds. And some of it is psychological. Some people, perhaps through shyness or social convention or just a habit of keeping their mouth tightly shut, actually stifle the laugh so it comes out as a snort or a pffffft sound. Someone else might be a big brash extrovert and let out big belly laughs. A lot of people will also have a fake laugh when they feel they ought to laugh at something out of politeness, and that probably just sounds like whatever their idea of a normal laugh is.

Question: Why do things bounce instead of stopping?
Answer: Atoms and molecules like each other only so much. 

Depending on the composition of the material they're forming, when they're placed under pressure they can do a number of things. Some materials crack and fracture. Others squeeze and compress. Some of the latter stay squeezed when you stop as long as there's some room for them to deform, but other materials really want to get back to their original shape immediately once the pressure stops. 

Dropping something places pressure on it from the ground when it hits. Drop a hollow glass ball, you get the cracking. Drop a ball of clay, you get the squish and the deform, and it stays in the new "I now have a flat side" shape. But drop a steel or a rubber ball, and if it lands on something hard, it gets compressed up as it continues to press downward against the surface, storing up the energy as compression (kind of like pushing the same poles of two magnets together) until the ball "bottoms out". Then it releases it, and in the same way the magnets repel each other when you let one go, that release pushes HARD against the floor as the ball badly wants to return to its original shape. So it bounces.

Even steel balls compress a little bit when this happens, although it's really hard to measure because the compression is so slight.

Question: Lysenko's approach to agriculture, Lysenkoism
Answer: Lysenkoism is the byword for bringing politics into science. Marxism-Leninism claims that any competition between individuals is a result of an unjust society with private property. If you allow a revolution to overthrow the bourgeoisie, and build a society of advanced socialism, you will produce the utopia of communism, a stateless society of equals where there is no shortage of collectively owned resources.

Trofim Lysenko decided to bring politics into biology by rejecting Darwinism in favour of Lamarckian evolution, which assumes that organisms inherit acquired deliberately acquired charecteristics and not natural selection; he slapped Darwinism with the label of being "burgeous science", used to justify an unfair society, similar to how the Nazis branded Einstein's theories as filthy Jew-pseudoscience unworthy of attention. That labelling persisted for quite a while: the Soviet Union considered genetics and cybernetics prohibited sciences for decades, and very nearly banned nuclear physics.

So, what did Lysenko propose? He claimed that by planting crops extremely close to each other, he was going to make them express "natural cooperation" (as opposed to Darwin's politically incorrect "natural competition"), *make the crops adopt Marxism-Leninism*, distributing sunlight, water and nutrients equally and hence more efficiency, and transmute between species as necessary to maximize yields. Yes, this is patently retarded, and only magnified the famine resulting from forced collectivization of farmers.

However, Lysenko crawled into the public sphere in the late 1920s, just as Iosif Stalin consolidated his power. The height of Lysenko's campaigns coincided with the Great Purges. So, it was pretty simple: by bringing politics into science, he made disagreement with his theories equal to disagreement with Marxism-Leninism. And those who disagree with Marxism-Leninism are Enemies of the People. At best, his critics became permanently unemployable; at worst, it's Article 58, the guy gets a quick shot to the back of the head, the wife gets ten years of gulags (because there is such a crime as "Wife of an Enemy of the People"), and the children get dumped into a prison-type orphanage and told that they are absolute scumbags for having such disgusting, inhuman parents.

Question: Hate against Jewish people?
Answer: Weird thing is most of it started because of money. You see, all three religions (Catholics, Jews and Islam) are strictly against interests on loans. Because they consider it unethical, making money with money. In their view only hard labour is allowed to make money. Now, the Islam is pretty strict about it, in that interests on loans are not allowed, period. Jews and Christians are more loose: its not allowed to ask interests from other Christians/Jews, but you can charge people from other religions than your own all you want.


Which led to a lot of Jew becoming rich bankers, giving out loans to Christians with interest (because Christians couldnt loan from other Christians). Thing is, lots of Christians owed money to the Jewish banker. You dont like someone you owe money. And whats an easy way to get free from a debt? Burn down the house of the banker you owe money. This is mainly how pogroms against Jews started: lots of people who owed them money, chases them away from the town and poof: no more debt.


This is one of the reasons people didnt like Jews, but theres others which have similar reasons.

For example: when the black plague killed thousands of people, lots of Jews were spared. Because Jews were a lot more concerned about hygiene because their religion told them to be. But your average medieval peasant thought that because the Jews were spared of the plague , they must be the ones behind it all!


In short: every time someone needed someone to take the blame for something, they blamed it on the Jews.

Question: In extremely obese (~1,000lbs) individuals, why does fat tend to collect in uneven pockets, particularly favoring one area or another, instead of being more evenly distributed throughout the body?
Answer: It may be because there hasn't really been any natural selection or sexual selection among humans regarding fat distribution. Being able to become obese at all has historically been rare enough that humans haven't evolved to favour fat being distributed symmetrically or evenly, so fat distribution is still very varied from person to person.

Question: How Does an Oven Cook Food Enough to Eat if It's Off for 2 Hours?
Answer: Beef is a relatively "clean" meat. Because it's so dense, all the nasties tend to live in the outer layer, which of course cooks first. And an oven heated to 350 will maintain a good temp for quite some time so... It's a combination. I certainly wouldn't do the same thing with chicken or pork because they both need to be cooked thoroughly all the way through to be safe.

Question: Why don't you feel the same way listening to a song like you do the first time after you've listened to it too many times?
Answer: Just natural human reward center mechanics. Think about it like this. If I gave you a million dollars tomorrow you would feel great. Possibly the greatest day of your life. If I came back a week later with another million that would feel great too. But what if I came back the next week? And the next week. And the next week. And the next week. And the next week. And the next week. And the next week.
After a while you wouldn't have any positive emotional response. On a long enough time line you would get sick of seeing me and probably slam the door in my face. 
Imagine the best meal you ever had. Now imagine only eating that 3 meals a day for the rest of your life. How long would it take for you to absolutely hate that meal? 

Now apply that to your song or anything else.

Question: what Flat Earth Theory is, and why believers are called crazy
Answer: It's pretty self explanatory. Flat-Earthers believe that the earth is flat, that if you start walking in any direction, you will eventually fall off the edge. It's crazy because the evidence to the contrary is so convincing that no scientist has seriously considered it for over 2500 years.

Question: Why poison frogs don't poison themselves
Answer: Time for a little cellular biology.

So quick rule of thumb, a lot of what makes up biology is the shape of molecules.  The reason why certain things act a certain way in biology is usually because a particular molecule is shaped in a useful way.

So toxins have their own shape.  Likewise, the proteins they affect have their own shape.  The only way a toxin can affect a protein is if the shape of the toxin is the right one to not only connect with it but also change the shape of the protein in the right way to mess with it.

Think of it like puzzle pieces, except that once the puzzle piece connects, one of them suddenly changes shape.  The changed shape now messes with the other puzzle pieces that originally could fit.

For a frog to be immune to its own toxins then, all it needs to do is to both store the toxins somewhere where it cannot affect the proteins it affects, or else it can have unique proteins the toxins cannot affect.

Question: What are the benefits to the United States in constructing the Keystone XL Pipeline?
Answer: As a Canadian who works in the Oil Sands I have to say I strongly oppose the Keystone XL. The political message in Canada is that it will create jobs. In reality, our high paying refining jobs will move to the states, where the weather is more favourable, the standards more lax, and the lower wages make it more affordable. We will lose more control of our resourses as well. We'll be selling you the unrefined product. Like selling unprocessed tress instead of a completed and more valuable product like lumber or paper (which also fucking happens).

This project came about after a breakthrough in bitumen transportation. Traditionally, bituminous oil didn't move well through pipes. This was a large reason why most of the upgrading facilities are built way up in the middle of the bush right at the mines. Now that we can move it through pipes though, the oil companies are second guessing doing all the work up here.

Canada will diversify our buyers one way or another, I don't think that was ever a selling point of the KeystoneXL. Right now two other pipelines are in the works to move Canadian oil to Asia and Europe. Sorry, but having America as our one and only customer doesn't lend to a great buisness relationship for Canada, it's more like a colonial one.

If you support fucking Canada over though, the US will get some oil jobs out of the deal and I'm sure some big buisiness fat cats will make a pretty penny. It would  probably mean more oil and cheaper oil from Canada too.

Our own government is pretty damn set on this one, so it's all up to the American side now.

Edit: Oh, one little note, our oil refineries aren't in southern Canada, they're predominantly fairly north actually. North is a pretty relative term in Canada though since our population is situated mostly at the southern end of the country.

Question: How are fingerprints formed?
Answer: You have 3 layers of skin - the epidermis, dermis, subcutis. Now the epidermis and dermis have to mesh together like a jigsaw puzzle - this is called interdigitation. This is done because you can't have your epidermis and your dermis sliding over each other as you touch stuff. 

Your body is a very well evolved piece of equipment, and knows that your hands, especially fingers, and feet undergo the most friction in your body. It is here where the interdigitation is the most pronounced - so much so that you can see it on the surface.

Question: how do sports commentators know all the players and their backgrounds so readily? I realize they are fed the info beforehand but they seem to spit out the info at appropriate times and so easily.
Answer: They typically have notes on hand during the broadcast, additionally they have a producer in the truck feeding them information.

Question: how do you determine the 'pack years' of a smoker?
Answer: 1 pack = 20 cigs

So 10 cigs per day x 20 years = 1/2 pack x 20 yrs = 10 pack years

Question: How can a 500mg pill be the same size as a 10mg pill?
Answer: The pills aren't 500mg, the dose of the drug is.

Some drugs need to be buffered differently so they will be absorbed by your body properly without causing a reaction.  That could very well make a 10mg dose require a bigger pill than a 500 mg dose of a different drug.

Question: I have allergies. Why do I get sneezing fits every time I get out of the shower?
Answer: I'm no doctor, but it may be because the humidity in your shower loosens the particulates in your nose which causes a reaction.

Question: The current European economic mess.
Answer: The European Union is a collection of states that are integrated at a level never before seen in human history. Part of that integration is a shared currency and many other economic ties. 

Several of the European Union States are experiencing an aging population, which combined with very generous social benefits (like healthcare, aged care, pensions, low retirement ages etc.) have combined to create a level of debt that is unsustainable. 

Because the European Union is so integrated economically, these faltering countries (Greece, Spain, Italy etc.) essentially become a danger to the economic well being of the entire European Community. Further, the shared currency "Euro" means that these countries cannot simply devalue their currency unilaterally, to attract more tourism, make their exports more competitive etc.

Question: Why can't you prevent injury in a falling elevator by jumping at the last second?
Answer: Let's say that you and the elevator are moving downward at a velocity of about 100 meters/second just before impact.  You jump upwards at about 10 m/s.  
   
This means that your final velocity at impact is 90 m/s downwards.  If that won't hurt you, and the falling pieces of the elevator coming down on your head at 100 m/s don't hurt you, then you're golden.

Question: Why are Japanese game titles often just strings of arbitrary words?
Answer: These are titles that were released in Japan with the title in English, so there is a bit lost in translation as they are trying to make their titles work with the way the game is. Here is the reasoning behind the titles in your example:

*Bravely Default* is an RPG where you have a "special ability" to either be "Brave" and perform an extra action in a round while giving up your ability to do anything the next round or "Default" when you basically do nothing but defend, but allow your character to perform a "Brave" move the next round without penalty. Hence the name "Bravely Default".

*Melty Blood Actress Again Current Code* is actually a title with two subtitled names. The overall game name for the series is "Melty Blood" which is an arcade fighting game about vampires (i guess the blood just melts in their mouth?). The expansion is called "Actress Again" which adds some new characters to the "Melty Blood" fighting game (so, new actresses). The "Current Code" is actually an arcade port to the PS2 which includes the Melty Blood with the Actress Again expansion (so, recoded to work with PS2). So, you get "**Melty Blood:** Actress Again *Current Code*" as the full title.

Question: Why are passwords said to be safer if I use uppercase, lowercase, numbers and symbols?
Answer: The longer the password, the more potential passwords a hacker or cracking program would have to try before guessing yours. Using more randomized passwords, increases the odds that it won't land on yours.

It depends on the program and goal. I have lists of passwords for different penetration testing that I am doing. For example. Wifi passwords need to be at least 8 characters so I filter out any shorter than that.

Question: Electromagnetic induction and Lenz's Law
Answer: Metals are full of mobile electrons.  That's because whenever metal atoms come together to form solid metal, their outer electrons leave the atoms and start orbiting among all the atoms.   It's as if a metal block is an aquarium full of water, with no bubbles allowed.   Physicists call this the "ocean of charge" or the "sea of electrons."

"Induction" happens when a moving magnet stirs the electron-sea of a metal block.   In a real aquarium you have to stick a paddle inside if you want to stir the water.   In EM induction, you only need to stick a magnetic field inside the metal.   Move it around and the electron-sea starts swirling in closed circles.

We usually simply this situation: instead of using a metal block, use a metal ring (called a "closed electric circuit.")   Suddenly jam a magnet through the center of the ring, and the ring's electron-fluid starts rotating in a circle like a drive-belt.   OK, now stretch the metal ring so it's very long and thin.  Sweep the magnet near one end, and that forces the whole "belt" of electrons to start moving as a unit.   You've created an electric generator which is powering an electric circuit.  

Keep wiggling the magnet, and the metal ring gets hot.   When you do this, you'll feel a sort of "drag" on the magnet, even though the magnet isn't touching anything.   It has to be this way, since it took some work to heat up the metal ring, so the magnet experiences a sort of "non-contact friction" effect.   It takes work to keep the magnet moving, but over there across the empty gap, the copper ring is getting hot, as if the magnet was physically rubbing on the copper.   Weird.

Question: Mariners of Reddit: What are the rules you have to follow to aid ships in distress/search and rescue operations?
Answer: According to Regulation 33, Chapter V of the Convention of the Safety of Life at Sea of 1974 (SOLAS 74)

 >  1 The master of a ship at which is in position to be able to provide assistance, on receiving information from any source, that persons are in distress at sea, is bound to proceed with all speed to their assistance.

Chapter V also instructs that vessels to follow the *Guidelines on the treatment of persons rescued at sea* MSC. 167(78)

Also, there is a publication called the International Aeronautical and Marine Search and Rescue (IMSAR) manual.  In chapter I of this manual, the command structure between shore and ship is establish.  Basically, whoever takes control of the rescue mission has the authority to redirect ships.

Then, there is the Brussels Convention of 1910 which also outlines the responsibilities of ships when it comes to rescue and salvage.

Besides the international laws, most nations have their own domestic laws regarding this situation.  In Canada, this is outlined (and pretty much repeated word for word) in the Canada Shipping Act 2001.

As for who pays for what, that typically falls on the ship owner.  If the ships burns a thousands dollars worth of fuel responding to a distress, they will get no compensation.  However, there might be a clause in the ship's charter party agreement.  When a ship carries cargo, they typically have a contract called a charter party agreement (or sometimes it is in the bill of lading).  In that contract, they list a bunch of items that the ship owner has to pay for, and items that the charterer has to pay for.  So, there is no guaranteed yes or no.

Furthermore, the ship may get some money back if they salvage the plane and perhaps even the crew.  Under international law, there is nothing that says you can or cannot claim a salvage fee for personnel salvage.  So, this will depend on where the plane is found.  That being said, most salvage agreements go on a "no cure, no pay" basis, so this means that you don't get paid unless you actually recover something, which they probably won't.

You should x-post this to a more legal oriented subreddit, because this question would be better answered by lawyer than by a sailor.  Maritime law can be quite tricky, and the financial claims of the ship could take years to settle.

Question: How does my mobile phone know when there's an incoming call?
Answer: Your phone constantly pings or sends information to cell towers for information. Cell towers route the call to you so when your phone says, "hey, do I have anything?" The Tower responds by giving your phone the call or a text message or just the time.

Question: Why is it that when it's a really cold night outside, the sky is so much clearer  &  crisper to see the stars more clearly? [Serious]
Answer: The sky isn't clear because it's cold, it's cold because the sky is clear. Clouds act like a blanket that keep the warmth radiating from the earth's surface escaping into the upper atmosphere so easily. Without the clouds, the heat escapes. This is why deserts are usually freezing cold at night - no moisture for clouds.

Question: Why does our voice sound different in a recording than what we hear ?
Answer: When you talk, you hear your voice both through vibrations in the air (which is the only thing that everyone else hears), as well as through vibrations in the bones of your skull (which only you can hear).

A recording accurately recreates the part that everyone else hears (vibrations in the air).

Question: Why do airplane staff have to open/close the windows at set parts of the flight?
Answer: I actually asked a flight attendant this.  She told me that it is a safety thing.  They want people to be able to see if there are any hazards outside the plane.  Also, keep in mind that a plane has no rear view mirrors.  It is literally impossible for a pilot to see their wings.  If some thing was wrong (like a fire) the only way they could see the wing is through the passenger windows.

Question: What does an investment banker do?
Answer: If you want to sell your house, you may decide to hire a mortgage broker to help you figure out how much your house is worth on the market and then show your house to potential buyers. If you want to buy a house, you may decide to hire a mortgage broker to show you different houses based on what you want and can afford. Instead of houses, an investment banker helps *companies* buy or get a acquired by other companies.

Most investment bankers spend 80-120 hours a week staring at Excel to model out what the financials of the combined company would look like (that's seriously the industry standard hours; most people quit within a year or two). At the highest levels, however, it's basically a sales job. The managing director knows a lot of people in his specific industry, what companies are worth in that industry based on financial metrics he's memorized over the years, and basically helps arrange buyers and sellers. If the deal goes through, the banker gets a small cut of the transaction.

Question: Who do bruises turn blue?
Answer: As you may know, your body contains a lot of small pipelines carrying blood to everywhere in your body. What happens if you bruise, is that one of these pipelines or veins burst and spill blood. Now you may wonder: Why is that stain blue, while blood is red?

It has everything to do with how we see colors. If white light hits an objects, some of it gets absorbed and some is reflected. The color of the light that is reflected, is the one we see. Blood reflects mostly red light and little other colors. Aside from that, red and green colors are absorbed more easily than blue. Think of how a swimming pool is blueish, while a glass of water is transparant. This is because as you get deeper, more red/green light is absorbed than blue. 

A similar feat happens with veins under our skin (if you have a light skin tone). Even though your skin isn't transparent it still lets a bit of light through. In that bit, there is more blue because the other colors are more easily absorbed. By the time the light hits your blood, most of the red/green light will be absorbed. When your blood reflects that light, it will seem blue, because the other colors are already gone. It is similar to how a gray sheet of paper turns blue if you shine blue light on it.

So in essence, the blood under your skin isn't blue. It seems that way because only blue light is able to pass deep through the skin and be reflected.

edit: As rupert1920 pointed out, the blood is also broken down into products that are blue, green and yellow. This explains the variety of colors a bruise has. Veins seem blue, because of those light effects as described above.

Question: What is the difference between using  < tables >  or  < div >  in webpage layout?
Answer: Web development has moved towards more semantic markup.  In a super small nutshell its kind of like the idea of using the right tool for the job.

A table is *supposed* to be for tabular data, not layout -- this is why it is generally not used for layout anymore.  It doesn't make semantic sense to.  In other words, if you need to put a nail in a board, you could use a wrench, and it would work, but a hammer is better suited for that.

Aside from tables, all the other elements generally behave in basically one of three well-defined ways: block, inline-block, inline.  I won't really get into those (you should read about it if you want to learn more), but the thing is that the way those elements behave is pretty well defined.  If you know how they behave, and can expect that behavior, you don't need something like tables to help with layout.

[Here is a great place to start](_URL_0_)

Question: why do email clients on android require access to calls and calls details?
Answer: The only explanation I could think of is so the app knows the phone is in use, and it won't attempt to transmit or recieve and fail unnecessarily. As for call logs... idk. 

But it could all be for marketing purposes as well.

Question: The difference between a coma and being unconscious.
Answer: > In medicine, a coma (from the Greek κῶμα koma, meaning deep sleep) **is a state of unconsciousness:**

 > 1) lasting more than six hours in which 

 > 2) a person cannot be awakened, 

 > 3) fails to respond normally to painful stimuli, light, sound, 

 > 4) lacks a normal sleep-wake cycle and 

 > 5) does not initiate voluntary actions.

*Source:* Wikipedia - Coma. Formatting changed and emphasis added for clarity.

It looks like a coma is just a certain kind of unconsciousness with a few other choice characteristics.

Question: Why aren't there any fruit-bearing plants that grow underwater?
Answer: Fruit is there for the plant to spread its seeds through fruit eaters' feces. In water, the seeds would float away once pooped out, so cut out the middle man and go straight to floating away. Submarine fruits aren't evolutionary beneficial.

Question: Why does the Japanese language use so many English words, even in cases when you know they must have an equivalent word in their language?
Answer: While Japan does have inherently Japanese words, what they're translating is a franchise name, not a word. Trying to be faithful to the original name does have its advantages: firstly it shows some respect for the country's culture and secondly it increases cultural diffusion, and thus, globalisation. Japan, as you might know, has been under the influence of the West for a very long time, and in their culture respect is very important.

Of course, another good reason is simply that it reduces the language barrier, especially when it comes to an imported franchise, so that people know it's the same thing even when it's not written in their native tongue.

Question: if there's a garbage island the size of Texas in the Pacific Ocean, why can't I find it on google maps?
Answer: It's not an island in the typical sense of a chunk of land you can walk on.

It's a region of the ocean with a larger than expected concentration of microscopic plastic particles.

The existence of this "island" is a problem because of it's size and it's risk to ocean life, but you could only realize you were even floating in it if you sampled the water around you and examined it closely.

Edit: It appears it isn't **always** microscopic pieces, according to some of the videos shown below.

Question: Why are male nipples fine to show, but females are taboo?
Answer: It depends on the culture. You're assuming a Western (mainly U.S) focus. It's much less taboo in Europe, and even less so in other parts of the world.

There's no real good answer beyond that. Culture doesn't really have to "make sense". A lot of it goes back to when showing any type of skin (even ankles! back in the day in china. Or necks, in parts of Africa) was considered immodest. Gradually that standard has evolved, especially in the last 100 years or so. As skirts have gotten shorter, as well as necklines/arms, all that's really left are the pieces covered by a bikini.

Breasts in particular are a bit special because they're tied to raising a child/picking a mate, and sensitive.


tdr: Because in our culture, it is.

edit:

I'd also add that it's kind of self reinforcing. Covering breasts means they tend to get fetishized/sexualized (associated with sex more), which tends to reinforce that taboo notion

Question: Why is the divorce rate so high in the US?
Answer: Who says it's high? It's high*er than it used to be* because nowadays we advocate divorce when relationships are abusive, dysfunctional, or unhappy. In the past, you were expected to stay married even they beat you, if they were a junkie, if they molested your kids, if you just weren't in love anymore and wanted to move on. We've only had a few years of even considering marital rape to be a real thing, you can't compare divorce rates to the past. The US divorce rate is *low* compared to many first-world nations (though that's not a *good* thing).

Question: Who invented the internet and how is it owned by nobody?
Answer: The inventors of the internet are Robert Kahn and Vint Cerf.  

Internet is not a single thing. It is a set of thousands of other things. No one owns it. A nice analogy would be agriculture. No one owns agriculture, agriculture is a set of techniques.  

The parts of the internet are owned by various people and companies though, like Facebook, Google, etc, but I think you know that.

Edit : replaced a word.

Question: Why do companies wait till the Super Bowl to make good commercials?
Answer: I suppose the best time to invest a lot of money into the production of an ad is when it is guaranteed to be seen by many, and be talked about later on. And in order to have the ad stand out in front of the others, so that the investment in the spot was worthwhile, it has to be very good. It's an ad competition.

Question: When we crave certain foods, is it because our body knows we need it?
Answer: My brother is a pediatrician and says the same thing. 

Some caveats though: sugar and fat (and possibly salt) is so scarce in nature that we are hardwired to want it when it is available - which is not good in today's society.

My brother does also refer to a theory that one of the reasons we have so many nutritional issues today is because as a society we suppress these innate skills in children, and over time they lose it.

Question: What would happen if u aimed the barrels of two guns directly against each other and pulled the triggers at exactly the same time?
Answer: How far apart are they? if they are a modest distance a part, the bullets would collide (assuming everything is identical between the guns and the ammo used) in the middle either causing them to fall where they impact or more likely ricochet in some unknown direction due to minor flaws in each.

If the barrels are touching each other? is the connection air tight? If so the weapons would likely explode from the force of the pressure caused by the explosion in the chamber being unable to escape through normal means (the barrel).

Question: The difference between Sunni and Shiite Muslims
Answer: * Sunni believe that the first four successors(caliphs) rightfully took his place as the leaders of Muslim. They recognize the heirs of the four caliphs as legitimate religious leaders.




 * The Shiite believe that only the heirs of the fourth caliph as the legitimate successor of Mohammed. 




Basically, they are POLITICAL difference, which now carry spiritual differences to this day. 


They do have differences, but most do  not distinguish themselves to any group, but simply "Muslims"


A big difference is for Sunni, if a consensus of the Muslim community agree to something, it is authority, besides the Quran. 

Shiite on the other hand, beside the Quran, the only other authority is Imams, or the person who leads prayers, who they believe to be infallible.

Question: Why are kids forced to take a plethora of subjects in highschool regardless of their future college or job prospects?
Answer: Because going to school is about more than getting a job.

Question: Can exposure to extremely high levels of radiation cause immediate death? How?
Answer: "Yes, high enough acute doses can prevent neurons from firing correctly and lead to instant death. If you were to pull out a fuel assembly from a nuclear power plant and place it on the wall and run at it from 50 feet away. You will die before touching it." 

_URL_0_

Question: Why are movies given different release dates for different countries?
Answer: Most likely because there's another major release on Apr 22nd that they don't want to compete with.    People choose 1 movie to purchase.  They don't buy multiples

Question: Why are we asked to turn our phones and electronics off when taking off and landing a plane.
Answer: Well everyone here appears to be a moron. The reason your phone needs to be off is because the flight crew doesn't want you to be distracted in case of emergency when they may need to tell you important information to, you know, not die. They just (used to) tell you the interference thing because airlines don't like making light of the fact that a crash is something that might happen, as improbable as it is.

source: my mom is a flight attendant.

Question: Why do diabetics who have hypos act aggressively?
Answer: If you are healthy you might be sitting around at like a blood sugar reading of 80. Normal is after you haven't eaten for a while that might start to go to like 70, and you start to get hungry as it keeps dropping a little more maybe you get that sort of cranky, irritable "hey, I am not dealing with any of this till I get something to eat" focus that would make a lot of sense if we were still animals that starved to death a lot.

If you have diabetes you can go way outside of the regular range. You can get numbers that are never supposed to happen. They end up tripping every sensor in your body that was supposed to just trip a little gradually when you got hungry. And take the normal irritability that comes with hunger and make it some crazy rage.

Question: How can the federal government just "shut down?"
Answer: Shut down is a little misleading, they whole government doesn't close it's doors on day one of the continuing resolution expiring.

In some ways the government does run like a business. It employs people and purchases materials from private companies to provide services. 

Congress has to agree on how to hand out the money the government takes in from taxes. That money is then made available for various agencies to use.

If there's no new money being made available to pay the people or private companies the various agencies are left to take steps to use as little money as possible until congress can agree on how it's spent. They furlough employees and stop making orders for goods or contracting services though private companies. If the agency pays out benefits to people they may have to stop at some point, but for the most part they keep social security checks and SNAP benefits coming as long as they can.

Government agencies will do their best to keep critical functions alive if they can. They may close national parks but keep forestry service fire fighting services going. The military will continue to be funded, but some of the MWR (morale, recreation and welfare) programs that are staffed by civilians may cease to operate. If the crisis were to go on long enough, those critical programs may have to decide whether to ask for loans and ask workers to volunteer, or to just let local governments try to fend for themselves. 

Plans are put in place to call workers back in once a budget has been passed and pay furloughed employees back pay for their time off if possible.

Question: why haven’t we built passengers airplanes with no windows but screen walls on the inside?
Answer: The ability for passengers to use natural light from the windows to evacuate in case of an emergency, and for emergency crews to be able to see inside the aircraft, would be lost with screens.

Question: So I've just begun Final Fantasy 13. I have never played any final fantasy games before. What on earth is going on?
Answer: One important thing to know (if you don't already) is that all of the major versions (e.g. Final Fantasy 1-10, 12, 13) have independent stories that are completely different from each other.

There are some common features like music, recurring characters (Cid, a bit different in each game), and things like rideable birds called chocobos.

Question: In footage of nuclear explosions, what are the white vertical stripes?
Answer: Those are rocket trails. Just before launch small rockets are launched which leave those plumes of white smoke as they go up. Scientists can watch how the plumes behave in the vicinity of the blast and get a nice visualization of how the air around the fireball is behaving.

It is possible that the specks of white light at the time of the blast were from the interaction of high energy gamma radiation with the retina of the viewers. Radiation interacting with photoreceptors often appears as a small white speck or flash.

Question: how do contact lenses stick to your eyes?
Answer: The surface tension of the liquid (mostly water) on your eye keeps them in place, but it doesn't really stop them from rotating.

For most people - those without astigmatism - it doesn't really matter if it does rotate. Your eye is pretty much symmetric thought the center (from your pupil to the back). Astigmatism is when your eye isn't symmetric like that. If you have astigmatism, it can be really annoying to wear contacts, because you actually notice when your contacts rotate - it messes your vision up.

They stay centered because your eye isn't an exact sphere. Your pupil (cornea, actually) pokes out a bit and the contact has an indented place for it to fit in.

Question: Why does United states and Japan have a good relationship now even after Hiroshima?
Answer: Hiroshima was part of World War 2. After the war ended, Japan surrendered unconditionally, and the US basically came in and completely remade the Japanese state. This laid a new foundation for Japan's extraordinary growth through most of the rest of the 20th Century, and basically reset ties between the two countries.

Question: Stars at nighttime.
Answer: It depends on where you live. Go [here](_URL_0_) to see where you can see the best stars. 

As for the reason, it's not so much the smog as it is the *light pollution.* It's like being in a loud room and trying to hear a pin drop. It gets drowned out by all the other noise. Not even the best, high quality microphone and analyzing software could pick it up if it's noisy enough. The same goes for stars.

Question: If food is sanatized in an oven or any heating device at a certain temperature, why do we take so many precautions beforehand with germs and bacteria?
Answer: Bacteria poop.

Even if you kill all the bacteria  &  viruses (which you can't be sure of) the bacteria might release chemicals that aren't healthy.

A great example is botulism - it's not the bacteria that make you sick, it's the toxins they release while they're reproducing that kill you.

Question: How did us mammals evolve into having emotions and specifically love?
Answer: Emotions evolved from communication. For example wolf who was able to bark when danger occured saved its pack members thus increasing it own chance of survival. Wolfs who didn't react / understand to react to danger more likely perished.

I think love is more primitive thing. It is just feeling that one should mate with another one.

Question: How are idols and idol culture so popular in Japan? What are the inner workings?
Answer: Idols are basically boy bands.

Except girls, and for guys.

But it amounts to the same thing, get a bunch of attractive young ladies, with some dancing, some singing and the right attitude.

And if you can get the right publicity at the right time, they become famous.

Question: Seduction
Answer: You can approach this from a whole plethora of sciences, but here's a very 5 year old version of how it works. Humans have drives, which are a sort of chemical potential in the brain. If you have a really big potential, that means there is a better chance you'll do whatever the activity is. 

Say you are a 5 year old who is sitting in front of a marshmallow and you really, really, really want to eat the marshmallow. Since you 'really, really, really' want it, we can say that you have a giant potential here (you are very likely to eat it.) Now let's add in that if you wait until the grown up who has just given you this marshmallow comes back into the room, you will not only get this one marshmallow but you'll also get a second! 

Now what we see here is a conflict. You want the marshmallow, but being the clever 5 year old you are you know that two marshmallows is oh so very much better. So we have two potentials and both of them are very big so you are very likely to do either of them. You know that the smart choice is to just wait and get the second marshmallow, but there is a seduction here in the form of what's known as instant gratification (which is just a fancy way of saying "it's my marshmallow, and I want it NOW!"). 

So what do you do? Well that depends on a lot of things. Maybe you'd be patient and wait, or maybe you'd give into the seduction of having your one marshmallow now instead of two in the future. 

When people give in to whatever version of just one marshmallow they have, they have given into seduction.

Question: Why do most surveillance cameras have such low quality? I understand that it is expensive to have high quality cameras which will cost a lot of money, but if low-quality cameras fail to catch criminals, then they are worthless and a waste of money from the start anyways which would defeat the
Answer: There are a number of reasons.

Firstly, cost. A high quality system is hugely expensive. IT takes good quality optics and highly sensitive cameras to work well in low light conditions, and high definition is very memory intensive, meaning you need large arrays of hard discs. Whilst some organisations are willing (or legally obliged) to fit such system,s the vast majority aren't. Is a small store owner going to pay $10,000 or even $100,000 for a multi camera high definition system with 3 month recording? No. He'll buy the $1000 system.

Secondly, detail is inversely proportional to field of view. If I want a camera with a 90 degree field of vision, to cover a parking lot, for example, then it will necessarily be too low resolution to capture faces or numberplates - unless I spend a lot of money. If I want to capture numberplates or faces, then I need to place the camera accurately at a "choke point". Bear in mind that even 1 megapixel resolution, 1000x1000, if a persons face only ever occupies 1/10th of it, we will get a 100x100 pixel image of their face: This may not be enough to conclusively identify them especially in poor light.

So, to cover your last point:

 >  if low-quality cameras fail to catch criminals, then they are worthless and a waste of money from the start anyways which would defeat the purpose of installing the low-quality cameras in the first place.

CCTV is used primarily as a deterrent. You put in your $500 Home Depot chinese sytem, rig up some cameras, and stick up your stickers saying "You are on CCTV". This might just be enough to put off those who were thinking "should or shouldn't I rob this store?" And overtime hopefully your investment will pay itself back. IT may also be that your insurance stipulates that you must have a functioning CCTV system to be valid - but no mention of quality.

CCTV doesn't "Fail to catch cirminals" POlice caught Criminals before widespread CCTV, and they continue to catch criminals where there is no CCTV evidence. However, even if CCTV doesn't capture a recogniseable facial image, it can still be very useful in the investigation of crime and the prosecution of criminals. Things like timings, movements, the build up to an offence can all be deduced from shadowy blobs moving about on grainy low resolution footage. That information can be essential.

Question: What is the difference between a router and a modem?
Answer: The modem is the device that converts input signals such as cable or land line phone signals from your ISP into digital data useable by a computer or similar device.

A router is a device that manages the flow of data to multiple connected devices.

So in your standard home, the outfacing connection (such as a cable line) is connected to a modem. That modem is then connected to a router which all of your computers, phones, or other devices connect to.

Question: How can games on the same console have gradually better graphics all the time if it's the same hardware? Why don't they just make the graphics that good when the console first comes out? Is there a max to how good graphics can get on a console?
Answer: Experience.

Developers learn the ins and outs of the system.  Each subsequent project builds on that knowledge.  There are some amazing new Atari 2600 games being written now, for example, that would have blown minds in 1984.

Each new console is usually so different from any other console or pc that it takes a while to build a nice library of techniques, tricks, and hardware exploits.

Question: Intended Immigrant
Answer: There is tremendous competition to get a limited number of work visa in the US, so there is a big problem with people entering on tourist visas then just staying.  So when someone who has just been denied a work visa suddenly wants to be a tourist, the US doesn't trust their intentions.

Also, many states have laws that make it illegal to presume someone is in the country illegally because they don't speak English or don't have proper ID, so once someone who intends to stay gets in, it is hard to get them out.  Most of Europe does not have that problem.

Question: Limits and derivatives
Answer: How well do you want to understand it? Is your intention so be able to do your homework? Or just to have a feeling of what the words mean?

A limit is what happens when you get close. An extreme example imagine something is constant, never changing, like a value that is always 1, except at one exactly time, say at noon, when for that instant is unknown. Now, what is the limit at noon? Well, remember the limit is what happens when you get close. No matter how close you get the value is always 1. That means the limit at noon is 1. The point is that the limit is a question about what happens when you get close, it is not a question about what happens at that point. It turns to be really nice IF the value at that point exists (in general values do not have to exist) AND it is the same as the limit. In this case, when the limit is the value we say the value is continuous at that point.

Being continuous at a point brings up another question... how fast is the value changing at that point? This is basically a question about slope. Slope is a ratio of differences. You may have may have heard that slope is "change in y divided by change in x" or "delta y over delta x". For lines this slope is constant. They change is always the same and the line is straight. But most graphs are not straight, they go up and down and wiggle all over the place. As long as they do not have any jagged parts you can imagine you hand is a car driving up and down over the hills and through the valleys. You hand is pointing up and down like a little straight line, all the time changing. Question, what is the slope of that line at some fixed point? This line is called the tangent line at that point. So the directions you hand is pointing is like a bunch of tangent lines whose slopes are *continuously* changing. Since it is continuous you can find the value by finding the limit as you get close. So you compute a bunch of "delta y over delta x" values and let the "delta x" get smaller and smaller... the limit as delta x goes to zero is the derivative, the instantaneous rate of change. 

tl.dr Limits are what happen when you get close and derivatives are limits of ratios of change.

Question: "cannabis is killing my apetite, I only eat after smoking, other than that I could go days without eating at all. which ends up with me feeling very tired/sleepy"
Answer: This isn't really an eli5 question. It probably isn't the weed "killing" your appetite when you don't smoke. It's just that marijuana stimulates your appetite when you *are* using it. I know a guy who has the exact same thing happen. Just doesn't eat really regularly if he doesn't take his medicine. 

Lack of appetite can be a symptom of issues like depression- which is a common and very real problem for a lot of people.

Question: Why is coming in under budget in the business world generally a bad thing?
Answer: Because forecasts are done under a certain logic with many objectives dictating. The idea is that a budget is there for a reason, and if all budgets are used correctly, then your overall business goals as a company will be met. If you aren't using your entire budget, the idea is that you're not 'planting enough seeds' if you will. 


Source: senior level operations manager at fortune 50 company.

Question: Why does entering *67 before your phone number block caller ID? What is the practical purpose of this?
Answer: The practical purpose is to provide privacy for the calling party by blocking the display of their number on the recipients phone.

Question: Who invented the ringing sound that is heard waiting for a person to pick up?
Answer: That's the [ringback tone](_URL_0_) to indicate that a connection has been established and the phone you're calling is ringing. You can see the first people to patent it there, but that does not mean they were the first people to actually impement it. I tried to find when it was first used, but no luck.

Question: The phenomenon of when you are trying to think of the name of an actor/actress or song lyric and can't in the moment, but after you stop thinking of the answer, it comes automatically at some random point.
Answer: I think that there is a lot going on in your brain besides your conscious thinking process. It's as if your brain was two people. The conscious mind really wants to know the answer to a question and keeps asking and asking, and the other guy keeps saying "I don't know." When the asker finally shuts up, then the other guy opens his phone and looks it up. But he couldn't do that while the conscious mind kept asking.

Question: Why aren't Democratic candidates proposing defense spending cuts?
Answer: Politicians are terrified still (post 9/11 thing, but also kinda always) of being seen as soft on "defense." Any proposed cuts to our military budget wil be portrayed as such, mostly by those pols who get lots of $$$ from military contractors, and the ever-compliant "liberal" media.

Question: Does CISPA violate the 4th amendment?
Answer: That's currently up for debate, and I'm sure those who are more politically aware than I am could explain it better. Personally, I believe it is.

Question: Why is Obamacare/Affordable Care Act so harshly criticized?
Answer: Some people are against the philosophy of it, i.e. having the government involved in their health. Others have practical issues with introducing a new bureaucracy to our ever-growing government/deficit. Others still have both philosophical and practical problems with many aspects of the act. And then some people just don't like Obama.

This is a very politically motivated issue, though, so this is just like asking why any other policy is not popular: because not everyone is a member of the Democratic Party. (or Republican, if we were asking about the Patriot Act in the early 2000's. Although now Obama has been renewing it so...)

Question: If a venomous snake is injected with its own venom into its bloodstream, what will happen?
Answer: Depends on the snake.  Many of them build up immunity in order to protect themselves in the case of an accidental bite.

Question: What are the basics of x ray diffraction and what kind of information does it give you?
Answer: A diffraction pattern is the shape light makes when it passes through objects that have "holes" or "slits" in them. Google image search "diffraction pattern" or "double slit experiment" to see what I mean. Basically, as light waves pass through the different gaps in an object, the waves recombine on the other side in patterns that are very much dependent on where the holes are, how they are spaced, and how big they are.

X-ray diffraction uses this idea to measure the shape and size of crystals. Crystals have an ordered pattern of atoms (which block or deflect light) and gaps (which let light through), so if you shine an X-ray through a crystal and measure the bright and dark spots on the other side, you can calculate how big the crystal's pattern is, what its shape is, and (I think) what atoms are where.

Think of it like shining a light and measuring the shadow, but the shadow ISN'T the same as the shape you are measuring.

Question: What is this "International law" that Obama and the US say Russia is breaking by annexing Crimea?
Answer: Well if you want something specific, there's the 1994 Budapest Memorandum that the Ukraine and the nuclear powers of the world signed. One of the tenets was that the other nations, in exchange for Ukraine giving up their nuclear weapons, was to respect the sovereignty of Ukraine's territories and refrain from using the threat of force against them.

Question: Why does gigabit even matter?
Answer: A home network is used for things other than downloading from the internet.  If you copy files between two computers over the network or stream video, you'll be working at gigabit speeds.  More importantly, if you're trying to copy files **and** stream video, you're sharing that gigabit between both jobs.

It makes a lot more sense if you think about an office with a central file server.

Why do you get it at home?  Because it doesn't really cost more to make gigabit hardware, so they just make it standard on everything.

Question: How did people deal with Asthama before we invented inhalers?
Answer: Generally they died pretty young. If you have a bad enough attack with no way to treat it, you do what you can, but for the most part, there's not a whole lot they could do.

Question: Why are old recipes so vague?
Answer: Recipes were vague for 3 reasons.

1. No standard measurements existed.
2. Ingredients were of widely variable quality and availability.
3. The people making them were expected to know how to cook.

Modern recipes are mostly aimed at people who don't really know cooking that well, and are made simple enough that if you can read and follow directions you won't fuck it up. This is made possible by having a widespread standard of measurements and ingredients of near identical quality being available anywhere.

Question: what's the difference between Subjective Vs. Objective?
Answer: Subjective = opinion, not factual. 

Objective = factual and thus cannot be argued with. 

**Edit:** words

Question: How does the human body build up a tolerance to something?
Answer: One of the things that detoxifies alcohol is the smooth ER in cells. When you drink, for example, you increase the rate of produced smooth ER, this in turn will build tolerance for the next drug / alcohol you consume. It’s like training a muscle, the first time you lift 45s on ea side you’ll be tired, but subconsciously your muscles tear and rebuild stronger connections.

Question: ELI5: If someone is born Deaf and Blind, would they have dreams when sleeping? If so what would the dreams consist of: taste, smell, feeling something? Would be interesting to know.
Answer: They dream, but only dream in their known senses. So like you said, a collage of smell, touch, feelings, ideas, etc. 

_URL_0_

Question: Is drinking an orange juice the same as eating an orange from a nutritional point of view?
Answer: No, orange juice lacks the nutritional fiber that whole fruit has. Fiber helps slow down sucrose absorption into your bloodstream. Because of this, drinking fruit juice increases blood sugar levels comparable to soda.

Question: Why do boys have "boy handwriting" and girls have "girl handwriting" ?
Answer: First of, we are talking averages and generalizations here. I´ve seen boys writing neat like it was printed, as well as girls writing in hieroglyphes.

The stereotype suggests, that girls are silent, obidient and put more effort into what they do than boys. They also are a lot better when it comes to fine motorics, like knitting and drawing. 

Boys are wild and the average stereotype boy is skilled at rough motorics, like soccer or football. To be cool as a boy, you best achieve your goals with the least effort possible. Take a math problem, for the boy only solving the problem counts. If the solution is correct, why bother if the process which leads there is readable at all. For the girl, the presentation of the solving process is as well a part as the solution itsself, every line is carefully written and the final solution underlined, twice.

Again, these are complete stereotypes and will match only more or less the average of any given group with a lot of exeptions. But in this narrow range of average stereotypes, the same principles goes for handwriting too. Girls simply tend to put more effort into the look of their handwirting than boys.

Question: The difference between horsepower and torque.
Answer: The power an engine produces is called horsepower. In mathematical terms, one horsepower is the power needed to move 550 pounds one foot in one second, or the power needed to move 33,000 pounds one foot in one minute. Power, in physics, is defined simply as the rate of doing work.

Engine horsepower is measured using a dynamometer. The dynamometer places a load on the engine and measures the twisting force the engine crankshaft places against the load. The load is usually a brake preventing the wheels from spinning.

What the dynamometer is really doing, however, is measuring the torque output of the engine. In a vehicle, torque is measured at various engine speeds, or revolutions per minute (RPM). These two numbers are fed into a formula -- torque times RPM divided by 5,252 -- to arrive at horsepower. The Society of Automotive Engineers has two standards for determining horsepower: net and gross. Gross horsepower removes most loads from the engine, including emission controls, before testing. Net horsepower is what's found by testing the same kind of stock vehicle you'd find at the showroom, and that's the measurement now used in advertising and manufacturer literature.

Horsepower is determined from torque because torque is easier to measure. Torque is defined specifically as a rotating force that may or may not result in motion. It's measured as the amount of force multiplied by the length of the lever through which it acts. For example, if you use a one-foot-long wrench to apply 10 pounds of force to a bolt head, you're generating 10-pound-feet of torque.

Torque, as mentioned above, can be generated without moving an object. However, when it does move an object, it then becomes "work," and this is what most people think of when they think of torque (usually in terms of towing). The more torque produced by an engine, the more work potential it has.

Question: Why do we have over 18,000 unaffiliated police departments in the United States? Why isn't there a single government agency that unites them?
Answer: Because there are lots of levels of legal authority in the US, and they are largely independent of each other (by Constitutional design). Federal laws are not the same as state laws, which are different from county or city ordinances. And sometimes they conflict. No single agency has the authority to enforce all those different laws, and even when the laws coincide, the heavy lifting is often left to the lowest level of authority that can effectively do it. For example, a murder investigation is generally done by the city PD where it happens, because they can do a local investigation best... the case will then be prosecuted by the locals _unless_ it's part of a bigger batch of crimes - like a multi-state crime spree - that needs interstate authority, and then the FBI or some other fed agency gets involved. 

For the most part, a state trooper or FBI agent isn't going to write you a parking ticket. And a county sheriff's deputy isn't usually going to be running a murder investigation. Now, if a cop witnesses you breaking the law, they may be able to hold until the proper authorities do arrive, but maybe not. Each of those areas may cooperate with neighboring areas, but they might just as well jealously guard their independence.

A good example is the recent dustup in the South  &  Southwest over using local cops to do immigration enforcement. The short answer, from a legal perspective, is: they can't. State, county, or local cops are not authorized to make immigration busts for the simple fact that states, counties, and cities don't make immigration law. Only the federal gov't can do that, so only the federal gov't can enforce those laws. ICE may sometimes use local cops for additional manpower on larger raids, but the busts are all ultimately under the authority of ICE (or whoever).

Question: How are the stars always in the same spot in the sky?
Answer: First, stars are really, really far away. So from our perspective it looks like they're in the same place every night...

But that's not true. Over thousands of years, stars *do* change position even from our perspective. They have in the past and will in the future. It's just that these time scales are *vastly* longer than our lifespans.

Question: How can our eyes properly view both bright and dark areas, but a camera can only set exposure for one?
Answer: Filmmaker here. /u/Porrridginal is on the right track. Camera lenses are built like the human eye but camera *bodies* aren't built like the human brain. The **aperture** of a lens [(like that logo!)](_URL_0_) acts just like an iris. It expands and contracts to let specific amounts of light through. 

Say you're walking around with your camera on a bright sunny day. You have more than enough light to see, so your irises contract to allow less light to hit your retina (your eyes are sensitive so too much light could cause damage). Your brain controls all of these processes automatically. Your camera, however, is not as complex. Therefore it is up to you set the aperture according to the **exposure**, the amount of light around you. This can be easily determined with [a device called a light meter.](_URL_2_)

A camera's aperture positions are labeled according to something called an **f-number** (or f-stop). It's the ratio of the lens' focal length (which distance it can see properly) and the size of its "pupil." Most cameras lenses range from the most light at f1.4 and the least light at 22. The higher the f-stop, the smaller the amount of light and vice versa.

So now imagine walking out of the sun and into a dark room. Your irises expand to allow more light while your camera stays the same. You could manually open the aperture in the lens to allow more light, but if you point the camera at a window the image will be [blown out like this.](_URL_1_)

So you try adjusting the camera to expose for the outside. Now the inside is too dark. What gives? The problem isn't processing power, it's selectivity. In real life your eyes can't see two different exposures perfectly. You can focus on the details of the bright parts, while the dark parts lose detail or focus on the dark parts while the bright parts lose detail. When forced to focus on both, your brain rapidly switches between the two choices and gives you a rough estimate.

Movies and still photography are able to get around this by using something called Neutral Density Filters (ND Filters). They come in big rolls and they're like sunglasses for your windows. Is the outside too bright compared to the room? Just slap some ND filters on there! Then your camera will read the outside and inside with the same detail.

**TL;DR:** Your brain processes all that information naturally. Cameras can't do that as fast, so we keep differences in exposure (amount of light) close to the same.

EDIT: I bet I missed some stuff. Someone please correct me if I didn't simplify it the right way. I'll add some pictures in sec.

Question: What bodily/survival function does crying fulfill?
Answer: It may not have a hunter/gatherer purpose, but I'm quite confident it has a purpose. At the very least, as children, it's a way to signal to our parents that something is wrong.

I don't know about you, but when I see someone cry, I feel bad for them and I want to help. Crying is a signal of emotional or physical distress, and we also have empathy. Combining a way to signal a problem with a desire to help others' problems would help foster communities. 

And imagine two sets of early humans: one where they feel drawn to work together in groups, another where they tend to live independently. Which do you think would thrive?

Question: What's the difference between kcal and kJ?
Answer: About 4

     1 Kcal = 4.1868 KJ

or

     1 cal = 4.1868 J

Both Joule and calorie are different units measuring the same thing. like yards and meters.

Joule is the SI (metric) measurement of energy while calories is an older unit also related to the SI-units but not part of it.

The amount of energy in food is usually given in Kcal (kilocalories), which are confusingly often called calories. (This is as stupid as calling kilometer meter for short, but commonly done.)

A calorie is defined as the energy needed to increase the temperature of a gram of water by one kelvin or to put it differently one Food calorie (kilocalorie) is enough to heat a liter of water by one degree Celsius.

A Joule is 1 newton times a Meter or 1 Watt for 1 Second

Food energy is sometimes given in kJ and sometimes in Kcal. You can estimate that a food calorie is about 4.2 times a kilojoule

Question: Why does all the research suggest that cats are indifferent to humans when my cat is clearly very affectionate beyond his basic feline needs?
Answer: Same here. When I'm upset, my cat comes sauntering up to me purring like a motorboat to comfort me. If I'm crying, he curls up next to me and wipes away my tears with his cheek. The purring is very soothing. If he didn't care about me, he wouldn't bother to do any of this. I think it just depends on the temperament of the cat?

Question: Why do some men gain weight all over while others gain it only on their belly?
Answer: It's genetic. Your genes determine where your body places fat. There's other factors that get involved, mainly age and hormone levels, but beyond that, some folks just get fat all over, others just get fat in specific areas.

Question: Why can't a computer program, program itself?
Answer: Here's one reason (among many). Human languages are very imprecise. If you tell a computer program what sort of program you want just by speaking to it in your natural language, it could only have a very vague idea of what you want. It's hard enough to tell a human what program you want.

You'd need a very advanced AI to do this. It would have to know a lot about the world to be able to "fill in the blanks" and figure out what you really want. Just like a human has to do.

There are experimental programs that do this kind of thing, but only in a really basic way. To make a computer program which could make any other computer program based on someone just speaking to it naturally would require an AI approaching the intelligence of a real human. And if you do that, what's to stop it taking over the world and destroying humanity?

Ok, that last sentence was a joke. Or was it?

Question: Why when a crazy event the isps slowdown but when millions watch the superbowl the cable stream isn't effected?
Answer: Cable broadcasts are one-way communication which just means copying a single data stream and sending it down a bunch of wires. Internet communication is two-way communication with each exchange being unique to the user.

An analogy would be using a megaphone to give a message to 10,000 people, vs. holding an individual conversation with 10,000 people simultaneously.

Question: How does the clock on my computer keep track of time and know the correct time even after it has been shut down?
Answer: It has a [real-time clock](_URL_0_) chip which is powered by a battery (and, generally, the computer can check what time it is when it has a network connection to adjust that clock).

Question: what 'alternative rock' is.
Answer: The easiest way of thinking of alternative rock is the "none of the above option".

    What genre is your rock band?
        [] Punk rock
        [] Funk rock
        [] Jazz rock
        ... etc. etc.
        [X] None of the above (alternative)

Really this means that there really isn't any common style to alternative rock - although many bands have some similarities with each other (hello electric guitar fuzz!), to the best of my knowledge there's no common thing linking them together.

In my opinion, whether something is alternative rock or not depends a lot on the context of the song than the actual song itself.

Question: Can both polar and non-polar molecules have london-dispersion forces?
Answer: A London-Dispersion force is just a simple case of a Van der Waals force. So, what you may be referring to is that. The attraction between a polar molecule and an induced dipole is called a Debeye force. What's cool about London dispersion is that it is what is responsible for inert materials having a freezing point.

Question: Why isn't Horse meat popular/eaten in America?
Answer: European here (Dutch). Even though horsemeat is legal it is not as common here as pork, chicken or beef. Big supermarkets usually have thin smoked slices of it for sale, for on bread, but not steak. For that you'd have to go to a butcher.

I personally know some people who don't like the idea of eating horse because they seem them more as pets than cattle. Perhaps that's the case in the US? But it's actually illegal there I think, which is taking it a step further than personal dislike.

Question: What is the psychology behind acquired taste; How does it work?
Answer: There are probably some other types of more physiological answers that would be appropriate, but I believe it is mediated mainly through social psychological mechanisms.

The current social psychological understanding of how we come into a new value or belief (unless anyone wants to correct my take on this) is that we take on beliefs and values by observing them in other people who we like and respect, and who we want to like and respect *us*.  This is critically important in my field - learning and memory - because people learn things from other *people*, and do so much better if they have respect for that person (among many other variables, of course).

So, acquired tastes work similarly, with a sort of combination of social psychology and basic behaviorism.  For example:  One of your friends in high school gets ahold of a couple six packs.  You really want to fit in with your friends, and they all seem to be saying it would be fun to drink this beer together.  Think of the aversive social stimulus you'd receive if you were the only holdout!  So you all crack one open.  Everybody's laughing, having a good time, enjoying lots of great dopamine.  But you don't like the bitterness of the hops.  It's an aversive stimulus - like a punishment.  But it comes along with all these really positive stimuli, and on net, the experience is enjoyable.  And that taste becomes an integral part of your memory of that occasion.

Now, on future occasions, you will be conditioned through behaviorist learning mechanisms, with positive social stimuli as the reward, to *seek* that same flavor, because it's part and parcel with your idea of having a good time with friends and beers.

There's another social psychological mechanism that I also think is in play, which is called cognitive dissonance.  When we invest heavily in something, we want to think of that thing as high in value, and tend to inflate its value.  When we're presented with evidence that it's not high in value, we are capable of some mental gymnastics to rationalize why it really is important and we're not a dummy.  By extension, we're invested in this experience - we underwent the trial of the hops, like some sort of rite of passage.  And now we're invested in saying that it was good, that we would totally do it again, that we would encourage other people to do it, etc.  This probably isn't the main contributing factor, but it at least sets the stage for continued exposure to the positive social stimuli that will be associated with the acquired taste over time, such that when we taste that thing, it *tastes like* those good times.

TL;DR - I understand it to be based on social motivations being associated with that stimulus over time, and that when we taste the acquired taste, it "tastes like" positive social experiences.

Question: Why can't people smell their own breath?
Answer: They definitely can, at least I can. Try breathing out of your mouth and nose at the same time slowly. Then move your lips to close them, but don't change anything with your throat. 

As to why you don't smell it as strongly, you get used to the taste of your own mouth, and smell is strongly tied to taste.

Question: How can dreams that seem lengthy, actually be only a few minutes?
Answer: There is also the factor that the chemical released by your brain, dimethyltryptamine, or DMT, in more mild quantities when you dream is known for it's temporal dilation perceptual effect. The substance can be used recreationally, in concentrated form, where users have reported the sensation of being gone for years in a dream like euphoric state and coming back to realize only 15 minutes has passed. The chemical is released by the pineal gland at three different points in life: a flood dose at birth, when you dream, and a flood dose of all remaining left at death.

Question: Torrents
Answer: >  What is a "swarm" (for example, saying 15 out of 15 seeds are connected when there's 150 in the swarm; why can't I connect to those other 135?)?

There are multiple factors at play here. They may include:

* The particular configuration of your torrent software. All clients have a limit of the number of peers per torrent and total number of peers that you can connect with at any given time. Perhaps you're hitting that threshold. If so, you can adjust it.

* Just like you have a maximum number of allowable connections, so does everybody else. And most have a specific number of upload slots per torrent, many times set quite low for the sake of providing tolerable speeds. So if person A has only three upload slots, they may have already connect to others in the swarm, and thus cannot connect to you to send you data.

* You may already have the same data. If you download a torrent containing three files, File A might be the "first" file (assuming you're downloading a miniseries or something like that). But you might first get half of B, then a bit of A, then more of B, then some of C, and back to A, and so forth. Invariably, especially if there are few seeds relative to the number of leechers, many leeching will already have the same parts of the torrent, and so no connection is made because you have no data they need, or vice versa. 

* Not everybody is connectable. If you go to any private tracker and look at the peerlist, some peers will be listed as unconnectable. This is often because they're not properly port forwarding or their ISP is interfering.

* Maxing out transfer. The protocol is designed to be efficient, so it will want to max out as many connections as possible using as few peers as possible (special cases like superseeding aside). And it does this while your bandwidth is being competed for by other torrents you might have running, that youtube video you've got playing, ect. So when your overall connection is maxing out, it would be inefficient to split the 700 kbps you have available to torrent A between 150 peers instead of 15, provided the latter has sufficient upload to meet your availability.

Question: Could the Hubble Telescope locate the picture left on the moon by Charles Duke?
Answer: As impressive as hubble is, it doesn't have the sort of resolution that would pickup tiny objects. 

A more interesting question is what sort of detail could the latest military satellites resolve - but only those working with them know that one :) Suffice to say they would be significantly superior to hubble, which relatively speaking is quite old.

Question: North Korea vs. South Korea
Answer: Japan conquered Korea in 1910. In 1945, as World War II was ending, the US took the southern part of Korea from the Japanese while our allies the Russians invaded it from the north. When that war ended, neither the US nor Russia wanted to give up territory the other might benefit from, and so Korea was split into two countries: a Communist north and a democratic south. But the south hasn't really been very democratic and north is run by a dynasty of crazy people, so the situation isn't stable. In 1950, the North launched a war to reunite the country. The US and allied countries stepped in to protect the South, and Russia and China backed the North. The two sides fought each other for 3 years, nobody was winning, and so they finally agreed to a ceasefire. But not a peace treaty. The two sides of Korea still hate each other, each thinks it deserves to run the whole country, and both side are backed by outsiders who won't let their side of Korea lose, so the mess just sits there, threatening to erupt into war again.

Question: How do weekly awards like the ones I see for $5000 a week for life work?
Answer: It's an annuity, which is kind of like a reverse loan. The contest has enough money to purchase an annuity, and when they have a winner, that's what they do. They will purchase it from a financial institution like a bank or insurance company. They pay them the money, and the institution uses the interest (and some of the principal) to pay that amount.

Question: Where has all of the rubber missing from the tread of our billions of worn tires gone to over the years?
Answer: Non-snarky answer - it ends up in the soil, the groundwater, the rivers, lakes and seas and from there up the food chain. Bon appetit!

Question: Why do shroom clouds form after a nuke hits the ground?
Answer: It happens with any large enough explosion, not necessarily nuclear.  The explosion pushes a lot of air out of the way, leaving a large, low-pressure zone filled with smoke.  As air rushes back in from the sides, and hot air rises off the heated ground, the smoke cloud collapses into the "cap" of the mushroom.

The air circulates something like this: _URL_0_

Question: How does an AI learn?
Answer: Your parents install a big green light in your bedroom, and inform you that you want to make the light turn on. You have no idea how to make the light turn on, but you start trying things. You fiddle with every single thing in the room, even flipping off and on the light switch. You try thousands of combinations of flipping light switches and kicking over the table until you hit the big red button and the green light comes on. You've done it!

It's so obvious now, the answer was in front of you the entire time. To turn on the green light, you must simply, do 17 backflips, kick over every table in the room, flick the light switch on and off to the pac man theme, and finally, press the big red button. Of course, this is the part where I should mention that you are not a human in this example, because a human would deduce quickly that the backflipping and such had nothing to do with creating the desired result. 

A clever computer would begin analyzing the steps it took to produce the result it wanted, and begin eliminating or adding steps to save on time complexity (the number of steps taken in the worst case scenario), or space complexity (Trying to cut out the pac man theme because having to remember it to do the sequence would take too much space.).

Eventually, if left to your own devices (hehe) to analyze the problem, you would come up with the most optimal solution (Depending on the problem, and the method used, you could never come up with the most optimal solution. Just get really close.). You simply get up, walk to the red button, and press it.

The next day rolls around and your parents install a red light, and a blue light in your bedroom. Then they tell you that when the blue light and green light are turned on, and the red light is off, you have done well. You begin to fume because you just figured out the last problem, but you realize that the information that you learned the last time could help out. After all, you already know the best way to turn on a green light. As a bonus, your parents hand you a huge book full of writings from others like you that don't necissarily know how to turn on a blue light, or make sure that a red light stays off... But they have done similar experiments with lights that may be helpful to you. Based on what you already know about green lights, and what this book says about other lights, you may be able to quickly arrive at a solution. Or, at least be able to assume that backflips are not very useful for turning on lights.

Question: Why is it that eating a lot of sour Skittles or other sour candy makes your tongue hurt?
Answer: They have citric acid. Eating a lot at a time will make your tongue hurt because your tongue's pH levels are compromised. Your nerve signals say "ow" so your tongue can do its thing back to a normal pH and heal those taste buds.

Question: Why is sugar bad for me and what does it actually DO to our health?
Answer: [This](_URL_2_) is the Long version. It's about 90 minutes

[This](_URL_1_) and [this](_URL_0_) if TL:DL on the first. It's about 20 minutes.

Question: Why are Netflix Original sitcoms not exactly 30 mintues?
Answer: Netflix doesn't have their own studios. They finance and greenlight these new series, and as a result, they get the exclusive rights for a period of time to them -- pretty much the exact same way a traditional television network works.

But after that time, the studio can sell the show to others, and most of their customers will want commercial time. So, this is almost certainly a concession that Netflix made with the studios so that they would be able to remarket the shows after they've appeared on Netflix.

Question: Is it a defense to the crime of Contempt of Court that the Court Order that the Defendant is accused of violating was unlawful or unconstitutional?
Answer: Yes, and there are two means of contesting this: An interlocutory (ie during the trial) appeal to a higher court can attempt to cancel an unlawful court order before they violate it or a habeas corpus petition afterwards.

Question: Why do ISPs charge for different levels of bandwidth while cell phone companies charge for different levels of data usage?
Answer: because they can.  

back in the day, AOL network access was also charged by the kb of usage as well as online time.   

if cable/dsl providers could charge for the usage and still be competitive, they would gladly do it.

Question: How does the saying "buy low sell high" actually translate into business?
Answer: It really has to do specifically with Stocks.

In the stock market, you want to spend the least amount of money, and make the most possble. You do this by buying stock when it's at a low price, and sell it at its highest.

However with companies like Apple, Facebook, Google, etc, their price (at least for the time being) will continue to go up. However sometimes after a missed earning period it will dip, that is when you need to strike. Getting in on a lower price will allow you to buy more shares and then when the stock inevitably goes back up, you sell it, and make more monies.

Also sometimes things like ignorance, greed, as well as brand loyalty will make someone buy high, and then when the stock undergoes a "self correction" as I mentioned above, and the price slips a little, they sell, and they have taken a loss on that particular stock.

Question: why do nightmares cause you to snap awake quickly instead of waking up normally?
Answer: Nightmares are dreams that cause the stress response, otherwise known as “fight or flight”.


When you’re awake, the stress response is triggered because a threat is perceived through the senses (you see a car coming toward you, or hear a wolf howling in the woods at night).  When you’re dreaming, your brain, at some level, is processing the dream as sensory input, so a nightmare can trigger that same stress response.


Physiologically, the sensory input is processed by the amygdala, which sends a distress signal to the hypothalamus, which engages the sympathetic nervous system.  This triggers the adrenal glands to start producing epinephrine (a.k.a. adrenaline) into the bloodstream, causing increased pulse, blood pressure, and respiration, and releasing stored glucose and fats, which increases the available energy in the bloodstream, so that your muscles react quickly and immediately, if needed.


Depending on how long the threat (or for the nightmare, perceived threat) lasts, once the initial surge of adrenaline and glucose subsides, the hypothalamus triggers the pituitary gland to release adrenocorticotropin, which triggers the adrenal glands to release cortisol.  Cortisol which keeps the stress response going by helping to break down fats / carbs / proteins, jacking the blood sugar back up.


While all of this is going on, you’re still dreaming, but since dreaming is REM sleep, which is very close to being awake, you'll eventually wake up.  When you do, you'll wake up very quickly, all jacked up on adrenaline and cortisol and blood sugar, your heart racing, breathing heavily, ready to run hard or fight harder.


Sources:


Harvard: _URL_3_


Wikipedia: _URL_2_, _URL_0_, _URL_4_, _URL_1_

Question: Why do genes want to reproduce?
Answer: They don't "care" about anything at all.

But if you have a gene that just tended to reproduce, an done that didn't, the one that didn't would die off and all you would have are genes that reproduce.  This same principle goes all the way back to the stuff that floated around in oceans before "genes" even existed.

Question: How do houses and estates get named?
Answer: You decide to name it and then insist that everyone refer to it by that name. You can do the same if you want to. Whether others will go along with it is another matter of course.

Question: If, say, a moon came too close to a planet, why does it get broken apart instead of colliding with the surface?
Answer: Gravity. When you are dealing with planets and moons, gravity is huge.

Gravity is stronger the closer the two bodies, the moon and the planet, get. When they get very close, then the forces on the parts of the moon nearest the planet are much greater than the parts further away. This tears the moon apart.

If the moon's motion or orbit brings it into contact with the surface, then it will collide with the surface, natch. If it comes close-ish to the surface, then it will be broken up instead.

Question: Why does it seem like bees are attracted to plastic children playgrounds?
Answer: Probably because bees are attracted to bright coloured flowers, therefore also attracted the bright colours of the plastic.

Question: Why is that families in the 1950's seemed to be more financially stable with only one parent working, while today many two income households are struggling to get by?
Answer: So imagine you have Owner and Twenty Employees.

The enterprise makes 30,000.

Owner pays himself 10,000.
He pays each employee 1,000.


Next year, they make 35,000.

Owner takes 1,000 and splits the difference to his employees. This is fairly normal way of doing things.

But, communications and shipping start becoming easier, faster, cheaper, better.

Now, Owner is able to buy the neighboring thing.

Now, he has fifty employees.

He says to one, "you manage."

That manager makes 2,000.

The rest still make their original 1,000 + the first windfall.

A few years later, Owner has ten of these places, with a dozen managers, and an infrastructure that he no longer is personally connected to. Owner sees his people, that used to be his co-workers, as parts of a machine rather than living breathing humans with their own dreams. He feels entitled to the money his *job* provides, and therefore all the output his employees create.

So, he keeps getting raises, but his employees... don't. At all.

Let's go to the 80s, where the worst thing in American financial history was pitched to the public: Trickle Down Economics.

The thinking goes, if we take Owner and say "I'm going to cut your tax rate by 10%" that Owner will take that 10% and reinvest it in the company, by increasing wages or making more jobs.

But, Owner is already business savvy. He has had thirty years or so to figure out all the ins and outs of his business. He is running his operation efficiently. He has, in fact, hired cadres of schooled managers to make sure everything is done as cheaply as possible.

So, that 10% tax cut? He pockets it.  Him, or his shareholders.

That is what happened, and that is where the problem kind of snowballs.

You see, each year, Americans do more with less. We make more wealth, but we don't see literally any of the increase. This is because businesses stopped operating as a family/human level, and because the government enacted policies which acted as HUGE giveways to the wealthy.

Over the last decade, the American economy has grown by a lot. There is almost twice as much money flowing through the systems as there was before. Literally none of that extra cash flow is in the hands of the consumers. It is all tied up into exotic money endeavors which have the sole function of extracting as much wealth as fast as possible from the poor and middle class. You see, once money has left the middle class, it never comes back.

The force of Government *should* be the balancing force. Basically, the Peoples Corporation.  Private business interests often work hand in hand with the consumer, but globalization kills this. You need tough regulations to prevent them from doing exactly what they did: make more money, take it out of our hands, and place it square into their holdings.

Americans were pitched a series of false narratives.

1: That we are all born equal (we aren't)
2: That we can succeed if we work hard (you can't always)
3: That wealth is achievable (currently the biggest predictor of your wealth is that of your parents)
4: Anyone who makes a dollar owns that dollar, no matter what they did to make it.

Other things came into play with this. 

The rich have dismantled various safety nets. That is, systems that prevent you from falling into poverty if you fail at a job. They are there to make sure that you don't become destitute, because crawling out of joblessness and homelessness is ridiculously hard and those that have had to do it have literally lost much of their actual productive earnings even if the period of poverty only lasted a few years. It is totally crippling.

So, take away all the nets, and it makes people less inclined to question or demand higher wages. You rally for more of the wealth you made? They will fire you and hire someone else. Some professions are mostly immune to this, and those are the professions which still pay pretty damn well. That will not always be the case.

So, in summary:
Wealth grew, and the rich take all of it.

We were taught to believe that the rich earned 'their' money so anything we do to take it back is communism.

Various political factions removed our safety nets, which removed our ability to bargain effectively.

And to repeat the point because how important it is, all new wealth goes to the wealthy. All of it. Literally, 100% of it. Every penny. Every dollar. All. Of. It.

Edit-

I'd like to point out one small thing in our thinking patterns:

If a statement of fact reads as an indictment of character, maybe the person being described isn't as wholesome as you thought they were.

Cultural inertia shouldn't excuse corrupt practices, even if those practices are common and wide spread. "It's just business" is a rhetorical tool that tries to eliminate any kind of personal blame from people who are directly or indirectly responsible for awful things. 

I don't personally believe that "the rich" are evil on an individual level, but I also understand that they are people, and it is human to collect more, expand more, and add to your holdings even if you're already the wealthiest thing for a hundred miles around. What I do believe is that it is our right to take back what we made.

Consider the Town of Cap.

It has 1,000 people in it.

Each of them work 8 hours per day, except the babies of course. 

At the end of the day, with all the goods sold, if the Mayor of Cap gets 50%, the Manager of Cap gets 30%, and the rest get 20%.

Dress that up any way you'd like.

Question: What exactly happens in your body when you lose your voice?
Answer: Your voice is created by two flaps of tissue in your throat called vocal folds. Their primary functions are keeping food out of your lungs, phonation (making noise), and increasing thoracic pressure for lifting/shitting. These flaps are very small; only as big as your pinky nail. When they become swollen through infection and overuse the muscles in them can't bring the folds together to vibrate. Thus you cannot talk. Sometimes when the vocal folds cannot be brought together fully, small regions of the folds can come together to make incomplete vibrations and you get scratchy sounds.

Question: why is a building like the Sagrada Familia taking so long to finish despite the availability of modern engineering techniques?
Answer: Gaudi died, and then a fire and anarchists destroyed the plans and some models Gaudi had built. There's also that it's a really bizarre piece of architecture. Most of the problem is figuring out what it's supposed to look like.

It's also currently in use, which probably places a limit on how fast work can be done.

Question: Why hotdogs called “hotdogs”?
Answer: These immigrants brought not only sausages to America, but dachshund dogs. The name most likely began as a joke about the Germans' small, long, thin dogs. In fact, even Germans called the frankfurter a "little-dog" or "dachshund" sausage, thus linking the word "dog" to their popular concoction.

Hot Dog History | NHDSC

Question: Why is paper white when trees are brown?
Answer: The color of paper has to do with how it is processed at the plant and for what purpose.

When wood arrives at a paper plant, it is first shredded up ahead of pulping. Pulping is a process by which wood is dissolved into goop and cooked until only wood pulp remains. For ordinary printer paper, this stage also includes bleaching, which removes any coloring in the raw wood. Some paper, like that used for cardboard, may skip this step, and others may involve the addition of dyes after bleaching.

The pulp is rolled into sheets and dried into paper during the last stages. This stage allows the paper to retain its color or lack thereof.

TL;DR: The way that paper is made involves bleaching the wood it starts out from.

Question: Modern history of Ireland, the IRA, Catholics vs. Protestants, etc.
Answer: I'm British, not Irish, and I have no specific education in Irish history, but this is (very, very roughly) how I understand it. I'll try to keep it at a level roughly suitable for a 5-10 year old, but this is going to be a long story and it requires at least some understanding of politics and national identity.

You have to go back before the 20th century to understand some of the current situation.

The English monarchy had laid claim to at least parts of Ireland ever since the 12th Century, and sporadically had sent over armies to capture parts of the country. There were various wars, uprisings and rebellions, but essentially by the mid-17th century the British had largely either bought out or slaughtered the native Irish clan leaders.

To try to limit any further Irish rebellions, the country was parcelled up into portions of land which were given to English and Scottish lords, they then implemented what was essentially a feudal system meaning that they had complete control over the lives of the Irish people living on that land. Additionally large numbers of Scottish farmers were ordered to move their entire families over to Ireland, especially settling in the province of Ulster in the north of the country.

The effect of all this was to create a strong "them and us" feeling amongst the Irish, who now saw their country effectively having been conquered by a foreign power. Importantly, the vast majority of native Irish (like most Europeans at the time) were Catholics, whereas the English aristocracy were mostly Church of England, i.e. Protestant. It's also important that the Scottish farmers who settled in Ulster were very strongly Protestant.

Let's now whizz forwards to the beginning of the 20th Century. Superficially not very much has changed: Ireland was still in its entirety part of the United Kingdom -- and of course at this time the British Empire was at its peak. The Ulster Scots families had now been living in the northern part of Ireland for many generations, but had not at all given up either their Protestantism or their allegiance to the British crown.

Then the First World War happened. The British Army suddenly found itself far busier than it had ever been before, and in 1916 a group of Irish nationalists took advantage of the situation to attempt an armed rebellion. This is known as the "Easter Rising" due to when it took place. For a week the rebels held out in Dublin but eventually the British army either killed or arrested them, and the leaders were executed.

But it had the effect of making people even more determined to resist British rule. At that time Ireland (like the rest of the UK) voted for MPs to sit in Westminster, and in 1918 they nearly all voted for MPs of a party called Sinn Fein, which had vowed for independence from the UK. The Irish Sinn Fein MPs refused to take their seats in Westminster and instead formed a separate Parliament in Dublin, where they declared independence from the UK.

Britain wasn't going to recognise this declaration of independence, and so a war broke out (this sentence might sound familiar to any American readers!) This wasn't a conventional war with tanks and vast armies, it was more like a couple of years of guerilla warfare and roadside bombs, very unpleasant for all concerned. Eventually the British Government decided they could never win against those tactics, and with the end of the First World War there was little enthusiasm in England or Scotland for further warfare, so a truce was called. In 1922 an agreement was drawn up and Ireland was partitioned, with the majority of the country becoming a separate country called the Irish Free State, but crucially six counties of the north, the areas populated by the Ulster Scots, remained part of the United Kingdom.

And that's where I'll leave this tale. It's long enough, and you can do another ELI5 for Irish history from the 1960s onwards and "The Troubles" if you want :)

Here's a quick glossary, because you asked for that too. Some of these terms are really applicable to more modern history, but you might well hear them if you're talking to your family.

* United Kingdom (UK): from the 18th Century until 1922 this was England, Scotland, Wales, and the whole of Ireland.

* Republic of Ireland: the majority of Ireland, which gained independence in 1922. Originally called the Irish Free State. The Irish Free State was a Commonwealth country, when it became the Republic of Ireland they left the Commonwealth, and they elect a president as Head of State.

* Northern Ireland / Ulster: the part of Ireland that remained as part of the UK after Irish independence. Unlike the rest of Ireland there are many Protestants in Northern Ireland who, for many reasons, generally want to remain part of the UK. However the Protestants are by no means an overwhelming majority, and there are also many Catholics who, for many reasons, generally want to be part of the Irish Republic.

* Nationalist: someone who believes that all of Ireland (including Ulster) should be ruled by the Irish, not the UK

* Republican: essentially a more militant Nationalist. In the context of the Troubles, the Republicans would be part of an armed movement, the Nationalists would look for a political solution

* Unionist. someone who believes that Ireland (or these days Northern Ireland) should remain part of the UK

* Loyalist: essentially a more militant Unionist. In the context of the Troubles, the Loyalists would be part of an armed movement, the Unionists would look for a political solution

* Black and Tans: an armed unit formed from British volunteers during the Irish War of Independence. They were notorious for their anti-Irish sentiment and brutality towards civilians.

* RUC: the Royal Ulster Constabulary. The police force in Ireland (and then Northern Ireland) until 2000. Gained a strong reputation for brutality and suppression of Nationalist sentiment.

* Sinn Fein: a Nationalist political party. They were the leading group in the first Irish Parliament, and today they exist as a party both in the Republic of Ireland and in Northern Ireland.

* IRA: the Irish Republican Army. There have been a number of IRAs, but the key feature is that none has been a regular army run by a government, they have all been to a greater or lesser extent an unofficial guerilla warfare organisation. There are various paramilitary groups active today that call themselves the IRA, all of which are classed as terrorist organisations by most Governments in the world. One of the most active IRAs of the last 50 years, the Provisional IRA, has always had close ties to Sinn Fein.

* UVF and UDF: the Ulster Volunteer Force and Ulster Defence Force. Both of these are Loyalist paramilitary groups, both are classed as terrorist organisations by most Governments in the world.

Question: How does this person not die after all this?
Answer: _URL_0_

People can be incredibly resilient. No doubt he felt a bit crappy for a while afterwards. Provided he didn't overstretch his stomach, he's just got one hell of a bowel movement waiting down the line.

Question: why does eating certain foods after a heavy night of drinking help prevent a hangover?
Answer: Fatty foods especially will help because fat, a complex molecule that takes longer to digest than carbs or protein, keeps your duodenal sphincter closed off for longer, which keeps the alcohol in your stomach longer. This helps because the enzymes that help your body neutralize alcohol are pretty much exclusively located in your stomach, so that's where the alcohol needs to be to be worked on by these enzymes. Hangovers are caused in large part by the presence of a mid-product of alcohol metabolism, acetaldehyde (a poison, basically) which is alcohol that has been partially catalyzed and then left the stomach before the process could be completed and the alcohol could be processed into vinegar and water.

Vitamin C will also help, because the liver requires it to metabolize the alcohol (Krebs cycle)

Question: What's the difference between the Sunni and Shia sects of Islam, and why is there so much hostility between them?
Answer: The Shiite group believes that only descendants of Muhammed should be leaders in/of the religion. The Sunni group believes that "good" ("good" meaning following the Quran and doing their religious duties well, etc.) should be the elected leaders in/of the religion. That's the main difference between the two, historically. A few differences in religious practices and and beliefs have fed fuel to that fire, probably leading to the relationship the groups currently have with each other after centuries of being at odds with each other.


Edit/Note: This was an extremely general, broad answer, which I am aware of. Also, there were a few mistakes in the statement, and I apologize for that. The knowledge I have on Islam is not extensive by any means, so this was just me trying to offer an answer without being entirely incorrect. Thanks guys!

Question: How does Google keep their map updated?
Answer: There are a lot of sources that Google can pull from, and obviously they don't really disclose all of them.  They own Waze so a lot of the closure data is sourced from the users submitting real time info there.  Users running Maps on mobile devices or in Android Auto that are still opted in to data sharing will also allow Maps to gather real time data about detours, traffic issues, and the like.  

Before the [Maps vandalism incident](_URL_0_) there was a system called Map Maker where trusted users could directly edit the map itself in near real time.  With high enough trust levels changes were published instantly.  Old trusted users from that system still have some level of ability to publish changes quicker in the updated Maps interface.  There are also the Local Guides program still in place where again trusted users can submit info.  

Changes to roads and boundaries are handled by a much smaller team now, but with better community hive mind input, they can spend time validating road updates and not as much time dealing with correcting point of interest edits like hours, phone numbers, websites, and closed businesses that all rely on community consensus to publish to the map more or less automatically.

Question: Oracle v. Google Law Suit
Answer: Oracle bought a company called Sun. Sun had developed a programming language called Java. Google had introduced an operating system for mobile phones called Andorid. Android is built on top of a variant of Java. Android started to become very valuable and Oracle wanted to get some of that money. Oracle claimed that Android used some things from Java that Oracle didn't explicitly license them to use. Google disagreed. A court decided, largely in favor of Google.

Question: Can a substances toxicity be determined by its chemical structure?
Answer: Yes and no. 

If you were to give a PhD in human toxicology a brand new molecule they'd never seen before and asked them "could this be harmful to a human", they could probably make a fairly educated guess. They may have to ask some qualifying questions first, like:

* How much of it?
* What form is it in? Diluted in water? At what concentration? 
* How is a human being exposed to it? Rubbed on the skin? Injected? Swallowed?
* Who is being exposed to it? Age, gender, pre-existing conditions? Any allergies?

With all this information, they *may* be able to craft a reasonably justified theory as to how such a chemical may interact with and potentially harm a human. That's probably the best they could do, however; the human body is *nightmarishly* complex, so trying to figure out exactly what will happen without experimental evidence can be an exercise in frustration. Hell, there are toxic chemicals we know about that we still aren't clear on their mechanism of action, or how exactly they do damage. 

The reason is that things that *should* be toxic often aren't (because our bodies have defenses against them, or because they simply have no way of reaching the areas that are sensitive) while things that *shouldn't* be toxic often are (because they're somehow able to bypass defenses, or react in a really weird way in a really sensitive area). 

Look at organophosphates, for example. These chemicals, on the surface, don't seem too harmful; they don't mess with your skin, your GI tract, your heart, your lungs, or any of that. However, it turns out that if these organophosphates manage to reach your synapses (the spot where nerves connect), they can very easily and painfully kill you, or, failing that, leave you permanently crippled. Why? Because it turns out organophosphates can react with a very specific protein that's responsible for turning your muscles "off". Without this very specific protein, your muscles contract and then can't release. People typically die due to asphyxiation, because they suddenly can't exhale.

Organophosphates can interact with 99.99% of the different proteins in your body without incident, but that one random thing in your synapses means total system failure. These sorts of specific interactions are what make toxicity so difficult to predict. 

Source: Took a class on mammalian toxicity.

Question: Why is the air blown from a fan cooler then the air in the room it occupies?
Answer: It isn't. You *feel* cooler, for two reasons: (a) it blows away the thin layer of air around your body that has been warmed by your body heat and (b) it increases evaporation from your skin, which cools you off.

Question: Workers Comp
Answer: If you are actually injured while doing your job your employer has paid into an insurance fund that is either a government run program or privately funded. The company I work for is "Self Insured" and if someone is injured our specific store has a fine of up to $32,000 (depending on circumstance) deducted from our profit and that fine is used to pay for the care of the employee regardless of the actual cost of treatment. If an employee cuts a finger and needs stiches we are fined almost $10,000.00 even though the treatment may have only cost $1000.00. This encourages a safe workplace and provides coverage for people that are seriously injured and can not return to work the next day.

Question: In quantum physics, how does witnessing (or observing) something cause you interfere with it?
Answer: "Observed" in science doesn't necessarily mean "seen," but it can also mean measured.  Often times, trying to take a measurement of something means that you have to interact with it.  On a larger scale, it's like putting a temperature probe in a glass of water.  Unless the probe was the exact temperature as the water, then there will be heat exchange between the two and thus measuring that temperature had an effect on it.

When you're on the quantum scale, there's now way for us to see what we're trying to observe what we want to see, so we have to use energy or other particles and see how those are affected by the one we're observing.  But, for example, if you're firing an electron at a particle to see where it's at or what it's doing, then you're also making the particles to interact which will affect the one you're trying to observe.

Question: on a flight I was on today, the pikot asked all passengers to shut their phone off, not just airplane mode but completely off, for the "specific type of landing necessary." What type of landing was this? Why was shutting phones off requested?
Answer: Was it foggy? It might have been an auto-land, which requires more protection than other approaches (there's a bigger area on the ground which must be kept clear of vehicles and other aircraft).

If it wasn't foggy, then it was probably just a way of getting your attention and making it more likely you'd turn everything off.

Question: Why don't dogs have a belly button?
Answer: They do - but they are usually much smaller than human navels, and usually hidden by fur.

Question: Can someone explain Post-Modernism like I'm 5, please?
Answer: What does it even matter?  Nothing has any meaning anyhow.  Even the meaning we project on things is a construct of the mind and the only thing that is worthy of attention is the richness of the individual experience, each of which differs from every other.

Question: Why is deep frying so much faster than baking?
Answer: Heat transfers faster through liquids then through gasses. You can be in a sauna without any harm to your body, but if you get covered with boiling water for a few minuites you at best will be covered in scar tissue and in pain for the rest of your life.

Question: the positive and negative effects of the privatization of Medicare.
Answer: It's hard to imagine something that would impact today's seniors.

Future seniors (today's young people) might have an option (or get forced) to get their Medicare benefits from a private insurance company.  That company would get a cut of the taxes that fund Medicare in exchange for providing coverage for a chunk of Medicare beneficiaries.

All the real pros and cons depend on the details.  If the insurance lobby gets to write the law, then they will be guaranteed profits and beneficiaries will bear all the risks.  If the doctors lobby gets to write the law, then patients will get whatever they want and we'll see a trend toward fewer and fewer providers in the program (like we see with ObamaCare today).

Question: why does the outlier exist in many languages that the number 11-19 follow a different pattern of construction that doesn't fall in line with 21-29, 31-39 and etc?
Answer: > Like 11-19 aren't said Onety-one, onety-two, onety-three and so forth

11-19 *do* follow the same pattern of construction, it's just the order that isn't quite the same. The suffix '-teen' comes from the same etymological root as 'ten'; 'teen' means 'ten'. 'Thirteen' quite literally just means "three (and) ten". Fourteen = "four (and) ten", fifteen = "five (and) ten", etc. It's more obvious in languages closely related to English, like Dutch, where spelling and pronunciation of ten/teen haven't diverged. In Dutch, 10 = 'tien'; 13 = 'dertien', 14 = 'veertien', and so on.

Okay, so that takes care of 13-19, but what about 11 and 12 you ask? As best anyone can surmise, eleven comes from a Proto-Germanic word meaning "ten-and-one-left-over". Twelve similarly meaning "ten-and-two-left-over". Again, Germanic languages closely related to English have similar names for these numbers. In Dutch it's 'elf' and 'twaalf'. In German it's 'elf' and 'zwölf'. In Icelandic is 'ellefu' and 'tólf'.

Why do we not say 'onety'? Because where do you think the '-ty' suffix comes from? What do you think it means? Sound it out. '-ty'... 'tee'... tee*n*... *ten*... Etymologically, '-ty' just means 'tens'. "Onety" would hypothetically just mean "one ten"; it's superfluous. Twenty = "two tens". Thirty = "three tens". Forty-one = "four-tens(-and)-one".

Question: What does the 'plastic' mean in "plastic surgery"?
Answer: "Rhino*plasty*" from the greek rhis: nose  &  plassein: to shape

Question: How can Obama unilaterally change a law
Answer: The law actually allows insurers to continue offering some plans as long as they aren't changed.  And those that are changed can be kept for another year (til 2015).  But most insurers are just cancelling plans instead of extending them for another year to simplify their own process.

But he can't "change a law" unilaterally.  A change to law requires congressional action.  But implementation of the law is up to the executive (the president) and where there isn't clear process for something, the president can decide how to handle it.

Question: What would happen if you blocked the little equalizing hole in airplane windows?
Answer: A small crack could develop in the inner pane, which was not designed to handle the pressure load. (The outer pane is supposed to.) But probably not even that.

Question: What exactly is buying debt, and how did Occupy Wall Street just do it?
Answer: Say I have a deadbeat friend who owes me $300 for rent money. He keeps saying he's gonna pay me, but he never does. After a while, I sort of give up on the idea that he'll ever pay me back for the full amount. I consider that $300 to be "bad debt," as in a debt that will never actually get paid. For all intents and purposes, my money is gone.

I know that I can't get the money from this guy, but maybe someone else can. I approach you, and tell you that if you give me $50 cash right now, you can keep whatever portion of the $300 that my deadbeat friend actually pays back, since you will now own his debt. You agree, and give me the $50 cash. 

Now, I have $50 more than I ever thought I'd get back, and you are holding the I.O.U for the $300. You can now either bug the deadbeat and try to get money out of him, or give up entirely and let him get away with it. If you wanted to be like Occupy Wall Street, you'd never bother him again, and be happy knowing that your paying $50 saved some poor bastard from $300 worth of debt.

Question: Why aren't there ever any windows at bowling alleys or casinos?
Answer: Bowling alley: the ones windowless I know are underground, plus I think it reduces noise. Casinos, that's actually funny and sad. Imagine yourself immerse in a game, you won't be looking at your watch or phone. So, how do you know it's already night? If you have a window you'll see the light contrast. However, inside a casino, light doesn't change. You don't know if it's still day or not. You'll keep playing until you quit or you lose all your money (in a 24 hours one). It's a trick to keep you inside.

Question: safe to eat raw chicken.
Answer: Most meat is fairly sterile immediately after slaughter, but the slaughter environment quickly taints the meat. Beef slaughter is not quite as dirty because you get so much off a single animal that you can afford some overhead. Chickens are *notoriously* dirty animals ( I own 20). And worse they are omnivores. Which means their bowels may contain dangerous bacteria, whereas cattle are herbivores and their bowels are basically just compost piles. All this basically means that the sheer disgusting nature of commercial chicken slaughter means you should never attempt to eat raw chicken, because the meat passed through an environment that was teeming with dangerous bacteria. The type that breed on rotting meat.

Question: Negative effects of raising the U.S. minimum wage?
Answer: When labor costs go up costs for everything goes up. This is called inflation. You can raise minimum wage all you want, at the end of the day there are only so many resources on earth. A maximum wage would be more effective. It would also be un-American. Our society is based on capitalism. If you want to make more than minimum wage you have to have a skill that is in demand and that there is a relatively lower supply of. A chimpanzee can be trained to flip burgers. I wouldn't let a chimp fly my plane or perform brain surgery.

Question: Please explain to me the mythos created by HP Lovecraft
Answer: The point of Cthulhu and the rest of Love craft works is about the fear of the unknown. Nothing is ever fully explained which is kind of the point.

I would suggest getting a hold of the penguin publication "Call of Cthulu and other weird stories". Because the stories were written at the turn of the century it can be difficult to follow l. This version has lots of notes with it that give a lot of further insight.

Question: Why can't shows like NCIS, Law and Order SVU, and Criminal Minds reference real world things?
Answer: Either to avoid it looking like a paid product placement, or to avoid the owner of the trademark complaining or even suing.

For example, if a show revolves around a terrorist attack which was organized by the terrorists using, say, WhatsApp, then the makers of WhatsApp might not be too happy about their trademark being linked to criminal activities in this way.

Question: What causes random hairs to grow so long and fast overnight and that are not normal hair color.
Answer: I know that in women it's sometimes hormones. I am not hairy in any way shape or form but when I was pregnant I had a super fine blonde strand of hair on my cheek. It never came back but I was obsessed about it. Hopefully someone has a better answer because I want to know as well!

Question: Why does a cat seemingly "turn off" when the back of their neck is pinched?
Answer: It's instinct. Mother cats will use the skin on the back of a kitten's neck to carry it (in her teeth) if she needs to move it. Cats instinctually go limp when this happens (which prevents it from potentially hurting one cat or the other), and you're triggering that same instinctual response when you grab a cat there.

Question: Why do dogs, with their amazing sense of smell, choose butts, old socks, and urine to smell?
Answer: It's not just a unique smell or marking territory. Specifically for butts, in other dogs there is a little gland there right near the anus that secretes the unique odors they use to identify each other. That is why they specifically smell in that area on other dogs. As for humans, they do it because that's how they are used to identifying beings, even if the human doesn't have an anal gland

Question: How does constantly mixing cement keep it from turning into stone?
Answer: As pointed out before, it doesn't, however it does prolong the process.

Cement solidifies by basically turning itself (a paste of very specific particles and water) into a crystal. The particles pretty much combine with the water to form nice hard crystals (so saying you're waiting for the cement to "dry-out" is technically incorrect).

By forcing the paste to tumble around, you constantly break the connections before they grow into stable forms.

Question: How the hell does life insurance work?
Answer: Source: I work for a life insurer in Australia (so am commenting on how life insurance works in Australia.  I assume it would be similar globally).

Short version:
Life insurance expires so insurance companies do not pay out on every individual.  For most insurers, this is generally between 65 and 70.  Therefore, if you take life insurance when you’re 35 and don’t die by the time you’re 70 – the insurer will never pay out on you.  When you die after the expiry age, no pay out is given.

The longer version:
Life insurance profitability is primarily based on your claims pay out ratio.  Let's assume a company has a realistic target of 30%.  That is, they expect to pay out $30 in claims for every $100 of premium revenue it receives. 

Note that this is not overall profitability, as you need to factor in additional costs such as wages, overheads, marketing, technology, etc...

To (attempt) to achieve this target they hire specialised individuals (called actuaries) whose primary job is to price risk based on statistically proven data.  Basic data used to calculate premiums include country of residence, age, gender and smoker status.

Based on this data, the actuaries create mathematical models that outline how much premium the insurer has to charge for each individual based on their characteristics to maintain the 30% claims target.
Eg (all numbers are hypothetical and the example is simplistic) – we know that 1% of males who are aged 45 in Australia die every year.  

Therefore, we price the premium of males who are 45 at a price point that when we have to pay out 1% of the policies due to death, the payout in claims does not exceed more than 30% of the premiums that we have collected for the others.

For insurance companies, data is key – the more they have, the better they can price you (and the risk that you carry).  Therefore, depending on which life insurance you get, you may not have to answer any questions, except your age and gender, or you may have to answer 100’s of questions about you and your family and be checked out by a doctor.

Generally speaking, if you are young, healthy and have a healthy family you will pay more money in premiums if your insurance company asks LESS questions.  This is because they are pricing you generically rather than specifically.

One last point – life insurance is like gambling.   The insurance company is taking your money betting that you are not going to die.  To increase their odds, they have common clauses.  Generally speaking, insurance companies won’t cover you for pre-existing conditions because the odds are in your favour.  (eg you can’t get life insurance that will cover you if you die of cancer if you knew you had cancer when you applied for the insurance).  Companies won’t always check this (or ask you) up front – but they will check if/when you die.

TLDR – Good insurance companies who can manage their risk properly, price their risk (premiums) appropriately and word their polices to protect them will generally make money.

Question: Can any one explain r-value of insulation, like what I'd lose if I used R-19 instead of R21?
Answer: The R-value describes how good the isolation is. 

The formula is (T1-T2)/R*surface area = amount of heat lost per hour.

From that, we can conclude that R-21 let's through about 10% less heat than R-19.

Question: How is the brain able to create images while reading that make it feel like I'm watching a movie?
Answer: I'm no expert, but I would say it is because the writer uses words to describe things you've already seen in real life. For example, when I say mountain you start to think about a mountain in pictures, because you've seen a mountain and knows what it looks like. But if I were to say mountain to a person whom never seen one, the person wouldn't create that image because the person never saw a mountain. The philosopf David Hume actually adressed this issue by using the example "the golden mountain" - you can imagine that only because you've seen something golden or gold and you can combine that with the previous image of a mountain. He also stated that if a person never saw either of those objects, the person would be unable to imagine such images.

TL;DR: you can imagine things in pictures but only because you've seen the things you are going to imagine in real life.

PS. I must excuse for errors. English is not my native tongue.

Edit: changed "sat" to "say" - I'm on my phone with a Danish dictionary

Question: what is the difference between Porter, Lager, Ale, Pale Ale, and what does the darkness of the color signify?
Answer: Beer is made of a few things: Water, Yeast, a Grain (such as wheat or oats), and Hops.

Generally speaking, there's two kinds of beer: Ales and Lagers. Ales are brewed warm (ish) and their type of yeast floats to the top of the brew tanks. Lagers are brewed cold (ish) and their type of yeast sinks to the bottom. 

Basically all beers are variations within the "ale" and "lager" umbrellas. The amount of yeast, hops, grain, and type of grain impacts the final type, among other factors. Porters, Stouts, Pale Ales, Bitters, and others are all Ales, which tend to be very complex and flavorful. Lagers tend to be more mellow; the most popular kind of beer in America is a kind of lager called a Pilsner.

Light/Dark isn't 100% across the board, but generally, light beers literally taste lighter while dark beers are heavier, rich.

Question: Why and how do fungus grow on your body?
Answer: It grows like it would any other place, with a dark and damp environment generally.  Make sure to fully dry your ass and toes ladies and gents.

As for why it is simple, you have what it craves.

Question: Why does Aloa Vera sting when you apply it to skin?
Answer: As with many moisturizers, the probable answer is to look at all the ingredients of your lotion. Alcohol, acid, or sodium may be cause of stinging? Find a more pure formula if possible. 

For minor burns  &  minor skin irritations, I just snip a portion of stem from an aloe vera plant and rub the inner juice right on the area.

Question: Why don't bands tour and have 3+ hour shows where they play all their music?
Answer: Because that would be absolutely exhausting and some of these bands are playing almost nightly during their tours.

Question: Why did the Vietnam war happen?
Answer: This goes way long, so bear with me.

**TLDR: The French created religious inequality and spawned resentment, the US mistook a nationalist revolt for a communist master plan, and then spent 20 years trying to fight popular opinion.**

In the 1600s, France set up trading colonies in Southeast Asia (Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia). Those didn't do so well, but missionaries came along with the traders and managed to convert about 10% of the population to Christianity.
Christianity brought more Europeans to Vietnam, and the different colonial powers started backing warring Vietnamese factions.

The French supported the Nguyen dynasty, in southern Vietnam. For a while, the Nguyens tolerated Catholicism and started letting Catholic converts into the government and the civil service. When they changed their minds, France decided to just invade and take over. Fast forward to World War II. The Japanese invaded Southeast Asia and forced out the French army. Meanwhile, a guy named Ho Chi Minh came back to Vietnam from Europe and organized a resistance movement called the Viet Minh. Ho was sort of a communist, and he took support from both Russia and China, but at heart he was an anti-colonial nationalist. During WWII, Ho Chi Minh's people collaborated with the OSS (the precursor to the CIA) to pass information about the Japanese. Interestingly, the US mood at this time was very anti-colonial. The last thing Roosevelt wanted was for France to get back Vietnam. He offered the country to China, but Chiang Kai-Shek wasn't interested.

After the war was over, Roosevelt was dead and everybody was afraid of Communism. Ho Chi Minh had a big army and was ready to take the country, but the fact that he was a "communist" scared the US into supporting the French. War were declared. In the First Indochina War (1946-1954) the French holed up in Hanoi and a string of forts across the north. They could easily defeat the Viet Minh in open battle, but Ho and his senior general Giap wouldn't fight them openly.

In 1954, the Cold War was going pretty poorly for the US. The Chinese revolution and the Korean War had been a giant disaster, and people in the US started to see Vietnam as an opportunity to "put a stake in the ground" and stop any more countries from going Communist.

The US started pouring weapons and supplies into Vietnam to help the French, but it was too little, too late. France was tired of fighting and support for the war was very low. France put everything on the line at the battle of Dien Bien Phu and was defeated, despite US air support. Shortly afterwards, they withdrew from the Vietnam and the country was split in two at the 17th parallel. This left Ho Chi Minh in control of the north, and the emperor in nominal charge of the south, but his prime minister Ngo Dinh Diem (an anti-communist, pro-French Catholic) had all the real power.

The two halves were supposed to take a couple of years to cool off, then vote for a single national government in 1956. Ngo Dinh Diem knew that he wouldn't win, so in 1955 he overthrew the emperor, declared South Vietnam a republic, and rejected the referendum. He arranged a massive population exchange to bring all the Catholics in the country to South Vietnam, in exchange for sending all the Communists to the north.

Diem did everything wrong. He pampered the Catholic minority, suppressed the Buddhists, and he squeezed the peasant farmers to please the old landowning families. Meanwhile, all those deported communists were slipping back into the country and organizing a resistance movement, called the Viet Cong. The Buddhists revolted, the Viet Cong revolted, Diem lost US support and got assassinated. JFK was assassinated shortly afterwards. His policy had always been to make the South Vietnamese fight the war, but the new president, Lyndon Johnson, decided that if we were going to stop communism, we had to do it ourselves. 

In 1964 some US ships patrolling off North Vietnam were allegedly attacked (the Gulf of Tonkin incident), and LBJ used it as a pretext to expand the war. The US started bombing North Vietnam, which caused a lot of noise, but didn't do the kind of damage that wins a war. Starting in 1965, US ground troops were deployed to South Vietnam. With the Viet Cong running amok, and the South Vietnamese army unable to get its shit together, the US commanding general, William Westmoreland, called for a "surge" to bring the war to a quick end. The plan was never to conquer North Vietnam, but to destroy the Viet Cong and stabilize South Vietnam.

The Johnson administration was not candid with the American public about the war. Official stories focused on the progress being made and ignored the increasingly huge Viet Cong infiltration into South Vietnam. In 1967, General Westmoreland gave a speech saying that the end was in sight. A few months later, the North and the Viet Cong simultaneously attacked targets all over the country (the Tet Offensive). The Tet Offensive was a military failure for the North, but the failure to foresee such a huge enemy buildup destroyed what was left of LBJ's credibility, and he didn't run for re-election in 1968.

Richard Nixon's policy on the war was called Vietnamization, and involved leaving the country with as much dignity as possible. The American media got hold of stories of American atrocities in Vietnam, including the My Lai massacre, and that fueled the anti-war effort. Over the next four years, Nixon pulled as many troops as he could out of Vietnam and pulled the rest back to safer bases. The North Vietnamese invaded again in 1972 and were stopped with US air support, but by now everyone could see that they wouldn't survive without US support. In the end, Nixon signed a peace treaty, pulled out the rest of our ground troops, and left South Vietnam to its fate. Saigon fell in 1975 and the North won.

So to summarize, France created a country where a privileged minority had authority over the majority, spawning resentment and nationalist movements. One of those movements, the Viet Minh, became influenced by Communism, but also became the most legitimate government in the eyes of the Vietnamese majority. The US inherited, through Ngo Dinh Diem, that same resentment that forced out the French and fought a long war to support a kind of inequality that just didn't resonate with the Vietnamese. Mistakes made by the US government destroyed popular support for the war, and eventually we had to leave without accomplishing our goals.

Question: Why is not participating in the thread when coming from, say, r/bestof, important?
Answer: If you come about a thread organically, or as part as a normal subscriber to a community, there is no issue.

But sometimes when some threads from one community are crosslinked to another, that can result in a group of people from the latter suddenly flooding to the former when they: A) are not otherwise involved in that conversation and B) are not otherwise part of that community.

The nature of the second sub that the first was linked to can bias how those people view it. For example, if you are a member of r/worstof, you *expect* to see examples of horrible behavior or horrible opinions. So anything posted there you are going to read in that light. You may walk away from that conversation with a very different viewpoint than someone who was part of that conversation from the beginning in the context of the original sub it was supposed to.

There is also the issue of brigading. It is against the site rules for you to round up a bunch of people just to go to a sub to downvote or upvote a post or comment. Yet that is a natural tendacy when you take a post or comment and link it to subs like r/bestof, r/subredditdrama, etc. To prevent brigading, most of these types of subs have rules against participating in or voting on the linked conversations and that is why "no participation" mode exists.

Question: Why so many prescription drugs lower your risk to fight infections
Answer: Some diseases are caused by your immune system attacking your own body. The pills to treat these diseases weaken your immune system so it will cause less damage to your own body.

Question: In terms of computer science, what exactly happens when malware is quarantined?
Answer: It's moved out of its original directory structure and renamed, so attempts by external software to call/access that file result in failure. Also, software checks are put in place to specifically prevent that file from being executed or loaded into memory.

Question: Why do U.S. Supreme Court Justices keep such long appointments, often until they die?
Answer: The reason Justices are appointed (or given the job) for life is to remove the possibility of undue influence over them by the executive (the President) or others.  If a President were able to "fire" a justice, the Justices might make judgements that are biased based on their desire to keep their job.  Many supreme court cases involve the executive branch, and in those cases, Justices might be afraid to rule against the executive out of fear of being removed from the bench.  It is also because we need very experienced people to rule on the most important legal issues facing the country.  If justices only stayed on the bench for a few years each, they would not be able to build up the level of institutional knowledge one would gain from a longer term of service.

The reasons Justices continue to work long into old age are several:

1)  It is the top job for a judge in the U.S.  There is no other higher office to seek in the judicial system.  Adding to this, for a person who is an attorney/judge, it is considered the highest professional honor you can receive.  Being chosen and confirmed means both of the other branches of government believe you are one of the best legal minds in the country.

2) It is not a physically demanding job, meaning justices are able to perform the duties of the job well into old age (as long as their mental health remains good).  Adding to this, it is likely the last job they will ever have.  Many people enjoy working rather than retirement.  Often, many retirees will find part time jobs or perform volunteer work to stay active and busy with out the stress or need of a career.  Justices likely find the work challenging and enjoyable and so opt to remain on the bench longer.

3) People who seek jobs like being a supreme court justice often feel a very large sense of duty or purpose to the country, and to quit or retire early (to them) would feel like abandoning something before it is finished.

It can be common for Justices to die on the bench, but many do retire as other commenters have said.

Question: How does the Self Clean function on ovens work?
Answer: It burns all the residue into ashes with very high temperatures, which usually reach the border of 4-digits in Fahrenheit. At this point, the ashes can be blown away. However, as many people will say so, the heat will destroy the oven quickly. The heat will completely ruin the coil, since it can't withstand the heat and usually there is a lack of cooling for such high temperatures.

Question: Why has space flight advanced so slowly since the 1960's. Why don't we have a reusable rocket yet even though its been 50 years.
Answer: At its post-1970 peak NASA's budget was half of what it was when the Apollo program was in full swing. It's less than that now. Most other space programs either didn't exist until the last 10-20 years, or more often existed but relied quite exclusively on the USSR/Russia or the USA to provide launch vehicles.

As a result you have NASA who spent everything on the shuttle program and learned a lot but have no real successor to build on it due to limited funds and public interest, and Russia with its leftover from the USSR and their paltry advancements since the cold war.

Rockets themselves have been largely dead in the water compared to how hard they were being chased during the Apollo era. The shuttle program and later ISS was/is much more about advances in surrounding technologies like flight computers, orbital construction and docking, science in space not directly related to aerospace, etc. 

Now thanks to people like Elon Musk with SpaceX, Virgin Galactic and others we have some people helping push more research into rocketeering itself and we've also got the long-researched stuff at NASA and other agencies like VASIMIR and Skylon that might get us some good advancement in the next few years or decades.

Question: If a person is overweight, why isn't the body's 1st choice to use stored fat for energy, when it is hungry?
Answer: Think of storing fat like building a battery.  Would you plug a machine in in your basement that builds batteries and then put those batteries in each light fixture around your house you wanted to turn on?  Why not?

1.  It'd be inefficient -- why convert AC power to battery to AC power would losing a little power each time?

2.  It'd be annoying -- you have all the work of distributing the batteries and changing them out.

3.  It introduces a bunch of breakable stuff for no reason.  What if the battery maker breaks, what if the battery holders in your lamps break.  

Even if the body did default to using stored fat, it'd be immediately replacing it with new fat, so you wouldn't see a difference.

Question: Is it realistically possible to save endangered species or is the planet definitely going to lose turtles, whales, sharks, elephants and many other endangered animals? What's stopping efforts to save them?
Answer: It depends a great deal on the species.   
As a few examples of highly recognizable success stories:     
     
The American alligator was nearly extinct before it was listed as endangered.     
Now there are more than 5 million.   
    
The bald eagle was reduced to around 450 mating pairs.    
Now it's around 10,000.     
      
Wolves, paregrine falcons, and a lot of others have been brought back from the brink of extinction.

Question: How does an explorer know if he discovered a new animal species?
Answer: The explorer, or whoever, sends them off to a museum, usually who compare them to other similar species; either in books, or other images, or the museums specimen collection (dead animals, bugs, plants, etc in jars of formeldahyde, or on pinboards, etc).

They try to narrow it down to a family or genus, and if it fit's no known species, it might become the ['Type'](_URL_0_) For a new species.

There are buttloads of new species out there, but mostly bugs or microbes, etc. I read this biologist saying that many suburban backyards probably contain unknown species of microbes or worms or fungi, etc.

Question: Why are the Beatles now treated like legends, when back then, they were seen as just some boy-band fad, soon to dissappear?
Answer: That is not a fair likeness. While they might be considered such a phenomenon, what they are great by is that they took music and made something entirely new with it. It was simply new and scary and exciting as they released their albums. 

Douglas Adams, an outspoken fan of Beatles as he was, once said that when they came out with a new album, he would run to the store, buy the record, and run back, break into the school room where the record player was, and for the first few times he listen to it, it just left him cold. "It was simply unlike anything I've ever heard before"

I suspect that this is the true greatness of the band.

Question: We've just flown past Pluto and we're entering the age of the driverless car. Why hasn't air travel changed since the 1960's?
Answer: Air travel has changed quite a bit in the last 50 years. We have much bigger jets than the 737 of the 60s, not to mention advances in avionics and, speaking of the driveless car, autopilot.

Question: How does squinting eyes change this image?
Answer: High and lo pass filtered images superimposed on each other.

When you squint you lose the ability to see fine detail so the lo-pass filtered image stands out as the details (high pass filter) disappear. When you are not squinting you see the detail parts stand out because the brain likes to see fine detail more than the 'background' (lo-pass filtered) blur.

/edit/ gadamnit, I was about to reply saying wat? I dont get it? 'Lose' ?? and then.. Doh. :)

Question: how does someone create a coding language like C++, python, or the protocols that govern Internet traffic out of essentially nothing?
Answer: assembler, or machine code.
simplified, you might have a 40 lines of code in assembler that only job is to [put a letter on the screen](_URL_0_). 

now that you have it, you can make an alias for that program, call it **print** for example.

**print "hello world"**

this uses the assembler program you called print and puts out hello world as input to your screen.

and you never need to touch the assembler again if you want to put something on the screen. As you have code that puts out text when you use print command.

now do that for everything you want your language to do, and you have a programming language.

this is vastly simplified, i tried to keep it short, feel free to mock me for choise of words or tiny mistakes i made.

Question: Why does most body hair eventually stop growing if I leave it alone, but continues growing if I shave or trim? Also why doesn't the hair growing out of my head stop growing if I were to leave it alone as well?
Answer: All hair has a terminal length and grows in a cycle. The hair will grow, stay at terminal length for a time, fall out, and a new hair will grow in its place. 

Body hair's terminal length is shorter than that of armpit or pubic hair, which is shorter than beard hair on men, which is shorter that head hair for both genders. 

By cutting your hair via a haircut or shaving you do not allow the hair to reach its terminal length so it seem that it is continuously growing nonstop, but that is a trick. It is still going through the same growth cycle mentioned above, you just do not notice it. 

Also head hair does have a terminal length. It is just so long and in a cycle that can last years that you will not notice it reaching it unless you stop trimming or cutting your hair for years.

Question: Why is it that I don't have to pee, but then suddenly my bladder is about to explode?
Answer: The bladder wall is made out of muscle which has waves of contractions just like your gut. These waves appear and disappear which may give you the feeling of urgency (feeling of wanting to let go). This should not normally happen unless you are holding your urine on purpose. The usual feeling of bladder fullness is a slight one which makes you want to go to the toilet. If you feel severe urgency out of the blue then that's something you should probably get checked.

As for what /u/Deeyzenuttz said, if you have symptoms like increased frequency with urgency (with or without episodes of incontinence) or problems while urinating then that might be a prostate problem.

Question: Since purple does not exist - When something is purple, what color is it?
Answer: Purple does exist, but only in your eye. Purple is what your brain tells you you're seeing when the eye receives both blue and red light at the same time.

Question: Why does getting hit in the head knock you out? I understand the force causing damage but why does the system shut down for non critical damage. Seems a design flaw when you're in a tight spot. Do all other mammals as well? Lizards? Insects?
Answer: In many cases it's a consequence of the processes triggered by the trauma, a contusion will start a sweeping  process which will increase intracranial pressure which in turn will compress blood vessels and reduce blood supply to the brain. The poor oxygen delivery in this case  leads to dizziness,  disorientation and black out until the blood supply is normalised once the swelling subsides.

Question: Why does hold music over the phone sound so bad?
Answer: Being specifically designed with speech in mind, the audio codec used to transmit audio over the phone is not suited for music. 

It will perform fairly well in the human voice frequency range (100-300 Hz) and horribly bad outside of it.

If you hold your phone against a speaker you won’t get much better of an audio quality. Contrary to what you might think, this is more because of the audio codec than because of the microphone. 

Additionally, depending on the specifics of the hold music you are referring to, the contact center software is continually trying to deliver your call to an operator, which may cause the hiccups you hear every once in a while. Worst case scenario, the contact center may have bad network connectivity, increasing the frequency of said hiccups.

Question: Neutral and Ground
Answer: >  Does the neutral and ground go to the same place?

Oftentimes, yes. And yes it can literally be the ground.

 >  If so would it be bad news bears to connect your fan with just the hot and ground wires and skip the neutral altogether?

Maybe, maybe not. You wouldn't want to do that if the exterior of the fan housing was connected to ground, as it could result in significant potential building up on the exterior of the fan.

 >  Finally, if the ground is literally the ground does that mean I can hammer a steak into the ground, wrap a wire around it, and connect the other end to the hot side (through a lightbulb)?

Yes, you could do that. It would cook said steak though.

Question: How to set up an IRA
Answer: Call Vanguard.  They have low fees. And that's a huge difference in retirement accounts. 

It's as easy as opening that Ameritrade account.  If you already have a work retirement saving account like a 401(k) you might not be able to contribute to it, though. 

You didn't ask, but...

There are two types of IRA. 

Traditional, that is pre-tax.  Every dollar you put in up to a limit takes a dollar off your taxable income. Your tax bill will be lower.  You pay taxes on the way out in retirement. 

And a Roth IRA.  That's post tax, so after you pay taxes on it now it grows tax free and you take out the cash tax free in retirement.

Question: Explain the Red Scare after WWI.
Answer: So in 1917, there was the Bolshevik Revolution, and Lenin came to power in Russia.  What this means in the United States is that Communism (or the bastardized political form) has some legitimacy.  This is a serious problem for American politicians because it means that:

a) they could lose power, and 

b) more idealistically, Communism threatens a free economy because it nationalizes all businesses and fixes prices, thereby strangling the economy (if you don't believe me, look at the economic differences between post-WWII Russia and the United States.).

A lot of people didn't get this, and part of the Communist Manifesto is to overthrow every government that isn't Communist and replace it with a Communist government.  So it presents a **direct** threat to American democracy and the rights of Joe and Sally Freedom, because instead of a communist utopia, what you'll actually get is a totalitarian state (although politicians then didn't know it at the time, they were more concerned with big businesses having a meltdown over the possibility of being nationalized and losing all their profits).  

Anyways, what ended up happening is that there were a bunch of bombs mailed to several big corporations at the time, and then the Attorney General at the time, Alexander Palmer, launched the Palmer Raids, which attempted to weed out Communists.

After finding nothing and having the raids declared unconstitutional, Palmer made a last declarative statement saying that the Communist overthrow of the American government would occur on May 1st, 1920, or International Workers Day.  Surprise, surprise, it failed, and everyone realized he was being sensationalist.  But it didn't change the fact that communism was (and still is) a serious threat to American democracy, it just made people trying to fight it look silly, and McCarthy didn't really make it any better either.

Question: What happens when I get a random twitch/flinch?
Answer: Essentially, its the result of phantom nerve signals that don't come from your brain. Something in the electrical system of the nerve responsible for one small bundle of muscle fibers goes haywire, and the nerve fires without being prompted. Most often some kind of local electrolyte imbalance is to blame (whole body electrolyte imbalances severe enough to cause random firing of nerves would be a medical emergency).

Question: What was the "Reagan Era" and why do people consider it to be such a great time?
Answer: The Reagan Era is basically when Ronald Reagan was president, from 1980 thru 1988 and was typified by the rise of social  &  religious conservatism in the Republican party based on a Christian platform.

By the mid-70s the U.S. had seen a lot of gains by secular (non-religious) groups in areas like women's rights (reproductive rights, equal opportunity employment), reduced influence of religion in government (prayers in schools) and other social issues generally opposed by fundamentalist evangelical Christians (FEC). Jerry Falwell, a Baptist Minister, was the head of a socially conservative religious movement known as the Moral Majority that felt that government policy should be driven by Christian ethics.  They found a champion of these values in Ronald Reagan and stood firmly behind him when he ran for California governor and U.S. president.

During Reagan's administration, the Republican party solidified it's current philosophy that lessening the burden on corporations (lower taxes, deregulation and weakening organized labor) equates to economic growth (supply-side economics; also known as "trickle down" economics), that government policies that embody strong Christian values will reduce social problems like crime and drugs, and that a strong military is necessary to maintain the U.S.'s strong influence in the world.

It was during Reagan's presidency that the U.S.S.R. collapsed, which nearly everyone agrees was a good thing.  It was also when the air traffic controller's labor union was busted and that fundamentalist Christian values were pushed into government policy, which most liberals agree wasn't a good thing.

Generally speaking, someone who identifies as conservative views the Reagan years as the golden era when the beginnings of what the Republican party is today was forged. Those that identify as liberal generally view them as a time when the trend towards progressive policies slowed or even reversed.

Question: Why do most bipedal robots always keep their knees bent a bit when standing?
Answer: I'm still an industrial electronics student but if I had to guess I would say that it is because when engineers program robots they are given a "home position" that the robot stays in.  In this case the home position is the one that best allows the robot to react to varying conditions. Like if the robot were to step into a hole and the knees were locked straight it would have trouble being able to step down into the hole because that joint can't rotate any further. But if the knee is in the middle of its rotation then it can straighten to step down into the hole or rotate further to step up onto something. Basically it's the position that allows a robot to do as much as possible and as far efficiency goes we are still just getting the kinks worked out of getting a robot walking. So it's not the most efficient way to stand but it's the easiest.

Question: Why is the oil price is not going up over the years when it is limited resource
Answer: General market laws of supply and demand.

Currently there is more supply due (at least in part) to the slowdown of the Chinese economy and the fact that [OPEC](_URL_0_) is pumping huge supplies of oil onto the world market.  OPEC have demonstrated in the past that they have a very strong influence on oil prices, as they control a large portion of world supply.

Less demand for more product = lower prices.

Historically, though, oil prices have gone up year over year.  And yes, it's a "limited resource" in that the theory is that oil will eventually run out (though this is debatable), but as of now, there is still plenty to go around.

Question: The specs of a PC
Answer: RAM: short-term memory. The more of this you have, the more stuff your computer can keep running at a time before getting sluggish. More tabs open, more applications running.

Hard Drive/Solid State Drive: long-term memory. The more you've got, the more stuff you can save - photos, applications, videos, documents. A hard drive is a bunch of disks spinning at high speed. The faster they spin (RPMs), the faster you get your stuff. Solid state drives have no moving parts to wait for, so you get information from them much faster.

Processor speed: thinking. This is the thing executing your orders, telling other components to do, to get you what you want. If it's faster, it can issue those orders faster. I'd it's got more cores, it can issue more orders at once.

Most daily needs don't require to think too intensively, so processor speed isn't the top concern for the casual user, who'll care how many photos they can store, how long they take to access from the drive, and how many they can open and view at once.

There's the power supply, graphics card, wireless card and more but I think the above covers what a five year old could handle in that first run.

Question: What is Marxism and how much does it differ from America's current system
Answer: Marxism is a revolutionary form of socialism. No, I do not mean revolutionary as in "new and different" (Marx wrote his manifesto well over a hundred years ago), but as in "it calls for violent revolution."

Marxism is not simply an economic policy, but a philosophical one on human nature, a political one, and a model of history. In Marx's eyes, human history is not dominated by the action of great men, but a constant struggle of one ruling class against some larger majority. For example, instead of looking at the Protestant Reformation as the action of individuals like Martin Luther or Henry VIII, but in terms of common people struggling against the Catholic Church.

So, the "modern" struggle of his time (the industrial revolution) was that of the factory owners against the factory workers. The only way for factory workers to gain equal share of the means of production is to VIOLENTLY revolt against the rich.

The democracies of the world would be replaced by a single unified Marxist government, a government who would break down the inequalities of economics, racism, nationalism, and religion. For example, instead of a factory being owned by a single owner, or a handful of shareholders, *all* the workers would have an equal share of owning the factory, and wouldn't work for a profit.

Eventually, the marxist government would've made everyone in the world entirely equal in all aspects, and shut itself down, as it is no longer needed and everyone is now going to be equal forever.

Or as Marx's theory suggest. All practical attempts to bring out Marx's ideas (the USSR and the rest of Warsaw pact nations, Cuba, China, North Korea, etc) into the real world have ended in failure, stalling out at the "revolution" part and becoming brutal dictatorships.

The US current economic system is a *regulated* capitalist one. Factories are owned by individuals for a profit, but have to work under government regulations. A US factory has to have enough fire exits and can't make certain things like nuclear weapons, for example.

Question: The Club Atmosphere
Answer: Taking off your shirt, painting your face and body in a bright primary color and yelling at the top of your lungs will get you thrown out of any church, restaurant, doctor's office or shopping mall.

But you'd fit right in at a football game.

Behaviors and customs are contextualized. Things that are entirely accepted in one context are inappropriate in a different context.

This kind of thing doesn't normally give people trouble. I'm curious why you're struggling with it. Maybe there's more to this that you left out of your question.

Question: How exactly does computer hacking work?
Answer: In real life hacking there are two main phases, discovery of a weakness, and then exploiting that weakness. 

The discovery phase involves researching how computer systems work and trying to find ways to interact with them that weren't intended.  An example would be going to a site and experimenting with inputting text into an input box and trying to get the system to respond in some way it wasn't designed to. Maybe you try inputting some html code, or javascript, or just putting in way more characters than it says you can. 

If the people who wrote the software that runs the website weren't careful, someone might find a way to get the software to do something it wasn't supposed to. I'm not advocating doing that to this site or any other site as doing so might be against the terms of service or against the law. 

Once a weakness is found then hackers would try to figure out exactly what they can gain from it and  eventually they'll make a script or app that can scan the internet looking for weak systems. In many cases these hackers can write programs that nearly automate the process of finding and exploiting a weakness.

Question: Why does carbon dating work with man made objects?
Answer: The issue is that, in the areas where carbon dating is effective, it's not telling you when the spear was fashioned, but when the thing the spear was fashioned out of died. 

A good analogy for carbon dating would be this: Imagine you come across a dead body.  You want to know how long it's been dead, but there's no obvious clues.  When you do the autopsy, you open up the stomach, and you find a half-rotten Turkey sandwich inside.  

Now, you know how long it takes a turkey sandwich to rot (because your that kind of weird scientist) and you know that the turkey sandwich must have been eaten while the guy was alive, and wasn't eaten already rotten.  As a result, by measuring just how far gone is the sandwich, you can know the time of death.

With the actual dating, you're not looking for sandwich rot, but instead for changes in the ration of two isotopes of carbon.  When trees are alive, since carbon is coming in and going out, the ratios are the same as the atmosphere.  But after they die, the ratio changes as one type of carbon decays into the other.  

That's why you can only really use carbon dating on things that are organic, and it's why it doesn't work on some things (like the shells of sea animals) where the ratio might change because of how they add carbon during the time the animal is alive.  But for land plants, it works pretty well. 

And hence, as above, we can use it to date not when the spear was fashioned, but when the tree the spear is made of died.

Question: Why bands perform with heaps of amps/speakers on stage instead of connecting to the venues PA system.
Answer: My band uses both our own towers *and* the venue PA system:

The speakers (or rather, monitors) that are in front of us are used to hear ourselves play, in case our in-ear monitoring system fails. 

Optically and audibly, this constellation is a win/win situation, (but of course only if our system and the venue are aligned correctly.)

Edit: 'Optically', meaning that the stage and the entire show simply looks 'better' for the audience when stacks of Marshall amps frame the stage.

Question: Why do tires on a car have air in them? Why not have them made out of solid rubber?
Answer: Rubber compresses yes, but not as much as air. Very early cars had solid rubber tyres and the ride was very bumpy (albeit combined with very primative suspension).  Also the solid rubber tires would "bounce" like a rubber ball, not ideal.  Air inside tires however acts like a shock absorber... then once the tire has returned to its original shape, the air doesn't spring back the other way like solid rubber would.

Question: Ketosis vs. Glycosis and how they both work.
Answer: Ketogenic dieter here. I'll try to present both sides as objectively as I can. I will start off by saying that cutting carbs is not necessary for losing weight. Eating at a caloric deficit is, that is to burn more calories than you consume. Calories primarily come from four sources: Fat, protein, carbohydrates, and alcohol.

Basically, with a ketogenic diet, you're depriving your body of carbs and forcing it to run on fat instead. In order to perform a lot of biological processes, such as to fuel the brain, smaller, simpler molecules than fat are needed. So, the body synthesizes ketones out of fat to do this. Part of the advantage of a ketogenic diet is that most junk foods are carb heavy, so by cutting carbs you're replacing them with healthier, lower calorie, more satiating food, making it easier to eat less. Some disagree with this science, but many ketogenic dieters also say that part of why it works is a low carb diet minimizes spikes of insulin, a hormone that causes your body to retain fat, and makes body fat a more readily available source of energy.

My understanding of glycolysis is more from an exercise point of view. When muscle cells need energy, they primarily use creatine phosphate as a fuel source for very short, intense activities (like powerlifting), and fat for long, easy activities (like walking). For everything in between (like high rep lifting and cardio) they use glycolysis. Slow glycolysis uses glycogen, a form of sugar your body stores, and oxygen. When you're pushing your endurance, your cells rely more on fast glycolysis, which is anaerobic (uses no oxygen) and primarily uses protein as energy. It creates lactic acid (or lactate, I can't remember which) as a byproduct, which gives you the burning sensation in your muscles.

I'm not an expert on biochemistry, so I likely mixed some things up in that explanation. I apologize in advance, feel free to correct me. Like, I just realized OP was asking about glycosis, not glycolysis.

Question: How do metals such as copper and zinc get into foods we pick from the ground?
Answer: So most metals when found in nature are in some sort of salt. You know how you need ores to get iron, ore is basically the salt with oxygen, where copper gets into the plant in -probably- nitrate form. Basically they get another ion and then get dissolved into the ground water, where the plants pick them up.

Question: Is water pressure from depth a "directional" force and therefore a downward force? Can it be alleviated? (illustrations included)
Answer: Water pressure, just like air pressure, pushes in from all around, not just from above. Neither of those diagrams will alleviate the water pressure felt.

Question: William Yeats Gyre
Answer: Disclaimer: I am not an expert on Yeats; I just wrote a paper about one of his poems once.

Yeats believed that history was cyclical, with cataclysmic events roughly every 2000 years. IIRC, he thought that "softer" or "Christian" ages alternated with "rougher" or "non-Christian" ages. For example, the birth of Jesus heralded the end of an age, and World War I was near the end of that new age.

Question: How does Ticketmaster get away with charging such insane fees? Why do they do this?
Answer: > How does Ticketmaster get away with charging such insane fees?

Ticketmaster gets away with charging insane fees because there is no law that regulates how they price their product. The only way the government can interfere in pricing or a business model is if it becomes a monopoly but that's a whole different issue and for this question all you need to know is that monopoly laws do not apply to Ticketmaster. 

 > Why do they do this?

Ticketmaster entire existence and business model is not to actually sell tickets but rather be a scapegoat for vendors, venues, artists, and etc. Artists and etc. don't want to take the blame for high ticket costs so they price their tickets for cheap and use the Ticketmaster fees to bring the price back up to the actual amount the artist wants to sell the tickets for. Ticketmaster may take a percentage of those fees but a majority of the fees goes straight back to the artist and etc. 

I.e. Justin Bieber charges $40 a ticket and Ticketmaster fees bring up the ticket to a $100 ($60 worth of fees). $12 of those fees (20% service fee for using Ticketmaster) go to Ticketmaster while $48 of the fees (the rest) go straight to Justin Bieber.

Question: LI5: Could you explain to me what linux is and why it's so different from Windows or Mac OS
Answer: Pretend that linux, windows, and mac are **toy lego cars**.

The **windows car** comes with all the pieces you need, and a standard set of instructions. It's pretty easy to put together, doesn't cost too much, and is really popular (you can easily get someone else to make a windows car for you). Because it is so popular, all the additions you can add on to your car like a laser cannon or bigger wheels fit right out of the box. Every lego set is made to work with the windows car. What you can't really change though is the main engine of the lego car. It gets made at the windows factory and you're not allowed to open that lego piece up. Its workmanship is somewhat questionable, but it works okay and does most everything you want.

The **mac car** gets sent to you already made from the factory using its own special legos. It looks really sweet and is super easy and fun to drive. It doesn't do everything you want, but everything it does do it does really well. It's somewhat popular, so a lot of the addons guys will make an addon using the special mac legos too. You can't change the engine and a bunch of other things, so you better hope it already works like you want it too (but there is a good chance that it does). All the mac addons work together easily without hardly any extra work.

The **linux car** is what all the guys that are really good at legos use because you can change everything. Even the engine is made up of more tiny legos. Everyone that makes linux cars shares parts and instructions for free, so you don't have to pay for very much. But a lot of the addons come with "some assembly required" and sometimes you have to use special connector blocks because it uses every kind of lego there is. But you can make the exact car you want, and chances are somebody else already figured out how so you just have to do a little extra work to get that super sweet car. If something goes wrong, you better understand something about legos because everyone's linux car is a little different so the mechanics might not know just how to help you. Also some of the funnest addons are only built to fit on the windows car so you have to do a lot of work to fit it on your linux car.

There are tons of other ways to build cars which usually have a really good reason you might need to build a car that way. Maybe you want to build fast cars, or reliable cars, or small cars, or big cars, or a whole fleet of cars that work together. None of these other cars (aka operating systems) are as popular as the big three.

edit: spelling/grammar

edit2: "the mechanics might not know just how to help you" line is trying to imply that you are going to have to put a little work in yourself to get things working right, or get someone else to do it for you. This does not mean that linux people can't help fix your problem, just that it is not straightforward.

edit3: I am biased against Windows, so I tried to keep as much of that out of my answer as possible.

Question: Why does our stomach and or intestines dont eat itself?
Answer: Our intestines have muscosals on the inside. That's a kind of slime between the stomach and the acid.

*Side-fact: When you die, the muscosals can't be regenerated, and then you "eat" yourself. (The acid dissolves you)*

Question: Why do girls tend to have good handwriting and guys tend to have bad handwriting?
Answer: Girls develop their fine motor skills earlier than boys, and it happens to coincide with the typical age around which children learn to write.

Question: Why the sudden excitement after the Star Wars teaser?
Answer: I do believe that people are incredibly hyped due to both nostalgia and hope. This is our new hope after the prequel disaster.

Question: When you have two blocks, one made of metal and one made of wood, in the same room with a constant temperature, why does the metal block feel colder to the touch?
Answer: The answer is difference in thermal conductivity ie how good a material is at conduct heat.

Humans can't feel what the absolute temperature is of a object we touch but instead we sense the temperature change on our skin.  So what we thing is a hot object is one that transfer a lot of heat to our skin per unit of time.

So objects at the same temperature will feel different if the material have different thermal conductivity.

The speed of heat transfer proportional to the  thermal conductivity multiplied by the temperature difference.


Dry wood has a thermal conductivity  of  0.17 for oak (that is high for wood)  and cast iron has 55  that is 300 time more.

The same is true for object colder then you but heat transfer in the other direction. It is quite obvious if you are outside when it is  below freezing outside. The air done feel that cold  and you can touch wood without and pain but touching ice will after a while be painful and metal will hurt you almost directly. All those object can have the same temperature but feel completely different.


Is is a bit more complex for small object where you changes its temperature like tinfoil that you can touch in a oven even if is is metal. The explanation is that the amount of thermal energy the tinfoil contains is so low that is cant heat up your skin any significant amount.

Question: Why are rest stops built with one on each side of a highway/interstate rather than one build in the middle?
Answer: They are in the median in some places. The left exit and entry is problematic for slower vehicles/drivers. 

Speaking of slow drivers, if you circle around looking for an open parking spot, eat, pee, and get gas, your internal compass may get confused and you could enter the highway going in the opposite direction I almost did it once and I have a good sense of direction.

Question: why can't 32 bit or 64 bit Windows run 16 but apps?
Answer: The difference isn't so much in the "number of bits", but rather in the fact that 16 bit apps are old and are designed for an entirely different runtime and file format and they require a completely different set of dependencies. They're now known as "16 bit", but the reality is the operating system's kernel was completely different at the time, and the apps were designed for that particular kernel.

Question: The sound barrier, and how you "break it"
Answer: We're used to air behaving a certain way as we move through it. It flows out of the way as we move. However, it can only flow so quickly, and at a certain speed its ability to flow basically stops, and that's the speed of sound. 

As you get closer to that speed, the air can't get out of your way quickly enough, and builds up in front of you as a shock wave. This wave can have horrible effects on a plane's handling, making it uncontrollable, and it can suffer catastrophic damage and crash. Hence the idea of a "sound barrier" - it was like hitting a virtual wall, and many pilots died that way. 

Breaking it required a rethink of plane design and a lot of testing in wind tunnels, before they actually built a plane to do it. One key design breakthrough was the [stabilator] (_URL_0_) a.k.a. all-moving tail, which kept working as you approached the speed of sound, instead of the conventional split stabiliser that was the cause of control problems.

Question: Does putting a chair under a round door handle really stop it from being opened?
Answer: Yes it works. The objective of putting the change under a round door handle is not to prevent the handle from being able to be turned it its to prevent the door from being opened by way of 'wedging' the door closed.


See [here](_URL_0_)

Question: Why do things sound deeper when in slow motion?
Answer: Pitch is determined by frequency. So higher pitch equals higher frequency and lower pitch equals lower frequency. Basically, if you capture sound at regular speed and slow it down, you are also slowing down the frequency of the tone.

Question: what speed do nerve signals travel at? And do giant whales have a delay since they are huge?
Answer: The speed is affected by a lot of factors such as age and gender. The impulse has to travel along the axons. Some axons can vary in diameter and can be more or less myelinated (think of it as rubber around an electric wire). There are a lot of types of fibers. The nerve signal can travel from 0.5 to 120 m/s (more than 400 km/h) depending on the type. 

Now, the impulse has to travel through your body from your brain to your toes. The impulse will arrive faster to your eyes than to your toes. However, the difference is non significant, because of the speed of the impulse and your body size. But for a bigger animal, the size matters. So yes, there is delay for them. There is delay between sensing and reacting.

Question: Speed limits
Answer: Road structure, distance between intersections, visibility, and number of lanes.  These are just a few factors that go into determining the speed limit.

Question: Since the first quantum computer has already been built... what exactly does it do and why is it considered a paradigm shift? I understand that it uses quantum mechanics but I don't get it at all..
Answer: First, a practical quantum computer has not been built. Scientists have made some in labs with a small number of qubits(the quantum version of bits), but those are not good enough to be useful. A company called dwave has claimed to built a quantum computer with a large number of qubits but their claim has been heavily scrutinized by some experts. Also the approach they use would not allow you to program the computer with any quantum algorithm you want even the ones we're most interested in like shor's algorithm.

A quantum computer takes advantage of certain properties in quantum mechanics to perform calculations better in some cases than a regular computer. These are unique cases and for the most part a regular computer would be as good or better than a quantum computer.

Some situations where a quantum computer may be better than a regular computer are: 

Factoring certain large numbers(very useful for cryptography which is why the NSA is so interested in them)

Searching databases

Some optimization problems

Simulating quantum mechanics

In my opinion the killer app is simulating quantum stuff. You can perform much better simulations of drugs, chemicals, materials, etc. This could revolutionize how we do chemistry.

Coming up with uses and algorithms for quantum computers can be hard, but I think that like the laser once the device is put into the hands of everyday scientists and engineers, applications will be developed that no one had ever dreamed of before.

Question: why do you become sexually attracted to someone once you develop feelings for them?
Answer: Part of developing feelings for someone is caring about their needs and wants. If they want to have sex with you then fulfilling that need is making them happy. Of course you are allowed to enjoy it too. 

When you really want to have sex with them and they really want to have sex with you then you are providing your two favorite people with one of their favorite things.

Also, if your 5 wait a little while.

Edit: I'm glad to see this resonated with so many people. There are a lot of possible answers to this one since OP is essentially asking about what makes people love each other.

For those 5 year olds who have already learned they're air commas, keep up the good work.

Question: Why do so many white, western liberals and progressives defend Islam?
Answer: They tend to support freedom of religion. They tend to support civil rights for minorities. Seems strange to think of them as a minority but in the US and Western countries they are.

Question: Why do businesses store my credit card number, and why can't I opt out?
Answer: Depending on the store,  several factors are at play. Some of the reasons:

1. Convenience - For instance, if you buy stuff from Best Buy,  you don't need to store your receipts as long as you have the card you used for the purchase. This one time,  I bought a camera in Phoenix and was browsing through a store in NYC a week later (and the camera was on sale for $100 less than what I payed). Walked to the customer service section, requested for a price match (all I had on me was the credit card)  and a minute later,  I was richer by $100.

2. Fraud prevention - Several reasons why it makes sense to store this information but I will give you one example. I have no money but just a credit card. I buy something expensive and return it.  Now if they didn't have my card number stored,  they'd have to pay me back in cash, thereby enabling me to get as much cash as the credit limit on my credit card. 

3. Tracking - Stores like Target (I don't know if they still do) track purchase history for specific advertising. Read this article. Based on the girl's recent purchases,  Target was able to tell she was pregnant and provided specific ads in her catalog. _URL_0_

There is probably more to it and hopefully, a person well versed with the subject will chime in.

Question: What's going on with Russia and Syria right now and how does it affect the rest of the world?
Answer: Russia is allies with Syrian leader, Assad, due to a navy base there. Russia claims to enter Syria to fight ISIS but it appears they may have attacked Syrian Rebels that oppose both ISIS and Assad, Rebels that America is backing financially and with training, risking a proxy war with USA.

Edit - to further clarify... 

USA wants to oust Assad and REALLY dislikes ISIS. Therefore we back the Syrian Rebels.

Syrian Rebels fight both ISIS and Assad. Unfortunately a lot of Syrian rebels defect to ISIS since they have a common enemy.

Assad and Syrian army are fighting both ISIS and the Syrian Rebels.

Russian allies with Assad, so is essentially ok with fighting both the Rebels and ISIS. 


USA is ok with Russia entering Syria to fight ISIS, it's our common enemy, but not OK with them attacking the Rebels. The situation could get out of hand.

Question: Baseball: From pitch to hits
Answer: **If a pitcher is throwing 98mph and the batter makes perfect contact (plus his strength index) the ball will be traveling close to 105mph. That lower speed or what some people would think is too low of a speed is due to the wooden bats used. If the MLB players used aluminum bats the ball would be traveling at near 130mph. That is why they will never be allowed in MLB.**

Question: The Visual Acuity AKA 20/20 system
Answer: This is the way it was explained to me (And I may need to go check my facts). 
Imagine someone is standing 20 feet away from a wall. Someone with 20/20 vision will be able to clearly read text written in letters that are 20 inches tall. 20/40 would be someone who needs text 40 inches all.

**EDIT:**
I *was* in fact wrong.

"If you have 20/20 vision, it means that when you stand 20 feet away from the chart you can see what the "normal" human being can see. (In metric, the standard is 6 meters and it's called 6/6 vision). In other words, your vision is "normal" -- most people can see what you see at 20 feet. (From here on, please assume that the word "normal" has quotes around it).
If you have 20/40 vision, it means that when you stand 20 feet away from the chart you can see what a normal human can see when standing 40 feet from the chart. That is, if there is a normal person standing 40 feet away from the chart and you are standing only 20 feet away from it, you and the normal person can see the same detail. 20/100 means that when you stand 20 feet from the chart you can see what a normal person standing 100 feet away can see. 20/200 is the cutoff for legal blindness in the United States.
You can also have vision that is better than the norm. A person with 20/10 vision can see at 20 feet what a normal person can see when standing 10 feet away from the chart."

[Source Here](_URL_0_)

Question: Why is it considered immoral to outsource labor to workers in countries willing to work for very little money?
Answer: Usually it's the working conditions that people are protesting. Factories in developing countries with little regulation and workers' rights can be downright abysmal to work in. They're not called "sweatshops" for nothing.

In addition to poor working conditions is also worker safety. A man might lose an arm operating a press or similar machinery because the safety regulations aren't written into law or enforced. So a man without the factory might not have gotten that pay, but they might still have both arms and have been able to farm or some other small-time employment, whereas the man in the factory might have earned a year or two's worth of wages before becoming a cripple.

It's a value judgement, nothing more.

Question: In simple terms, what does the mathematical constant "e" mean?
Answer: e is special because of what happens when you take it to some exponent. Namely, if you graph y=e^x . [Here is a reference](_URL_0_). It's special because, at every point on that line, the slope of the graph is exactly equal to the y value of the graph. At y=1, y'=1. At y=2, y'=2. Turns out, that symmetry is very useful and helps to solve a lot of problems.

Question: Why are certain credit cards not accepted by certain buisinesses
Answer: Very simply: every credit card company requires the business to "subscribe" to their service. The subscription lets the business accept that particular credit card.

Unlike a magazine or MMO subscription, however, there's a charge **per transaction** (MasterCard, for instance, may charge 2.75% of the transaction + a $0.30 processing fee), with a mandatory minimum charge (usually something achievable, like $10). 

Some businesses are small enough that they can only afford one or two, but not necessarily [all seven](_URL_0_) (and that doesn't include frequent flier miles cards, AAA, etc). The margins in retail are small enough as-is, and it can be a risk to offer support for a card that no one uses.

Question: How do people become addicted to smoking cigarettes when it is so awful the first few times?
Answer: For many people, smoking isn't about cigarettes, but rather about a little social club you get to hang out with outside every few hours.  

It's not always bad the first time.  I liked the cigarettes the first time I smoked one.  It just felt right, and the feeling of hot smoke in my lungs was pleasant.  I only didn't pick the habit up because I know it would kill me.

Question: Why do some games have huge modding communities (Minecraft, Skyrim), whereas others have none at all?
Answer: Some games are easier to mod than others. Most have no official modding tools, unlike games like Skyrim or Valve games.

Question: Can someone please explain LI5 what redshift is?
Answer: Chris and Bob are playing with a slinky together. They're a little odd, so the best thing they can think of is to have each of them hold one end, and have Bob run away from Chris while he is standing still. The two notice that the slinky stretches out when Bob does this. A bit later, they decide to have Bob run towards Chris (who is still standing still). The slinky gets really tightly compressed and close together.

You see, light is like that slinky. When Chris, or a planet, is moving away from us, the slinky, or light is stretched out. When Chris, or a planet, is moving towards us, the light is squished together. But what does that do to the light? Well, [here](_URL_0_) is an image that might help. When light is *longer*, it's to the left, and when it's *shorter*, it's to the right. [Here](_URL_1_) is another useful image, which also shows the "slinky".

So redshift just means that the "slinky", which is light, is being stretched out. What does that tell us? Think back to Chris and Bob. It means that the planet is moving away! And if it was blue (blueshift)? I leave that one to you.

Question: The concept of 'squatting' in a home that isn't yours and why it's so difficult to remove squatters from the premises in certain places. What stops people from kicking in the door to residence they own and throwing squatters out?
Answer: Could be a number of reasons:

The owner of building is not aware of the squatters, or simply doesn't care. Remember, the owner of the building may be some nameless overseas corporation. Or, a rundown building is scheduled for demolition sometime next year. Do you think the owner cares what happens to the building between now and then?

In some/most countries squatters have legal rights and you literally can't just kick them out. Even stranger, if they squat somewhere long enough they could have a legal claim of ownership.
(Look up slums in Brazil. If you squat somewhere for 5 years you can claim ownership, there's a reason they are bulldozed exactly every X years or something like that)

Police are not always keen to enter buildings with squatters in them;

Place could be boobytrapped, or even fortified, not to mention drug paraphernalia lying about. Or simply so rundown that it is not safe to enter. Also, don't assume that the squatters would live in easy to access parts. Good chance they're hiding in the crawlspace for example. Are you going to crawl in there and ask them nicely to please leave the premises?

Did I mention fortified by the way? Here's a choice quote from Wikipedia:

**"The squatting movement took on an increasingly anarchist tone during the 1980s. On 29 February, police moved to evict residents from a squatted building on the corner of Vondelstraat. It was immediately reoccupied and barricades erected. Street fights ensued between riot police and the squatters, with the building being cleared when a military tank demolished the surrounding street barricades"**


Last but not least, another little anecdote about squatters in Amsterdam:
(Most buildings in Amsterdam are multi-storey FYI).

A rural cop spends a few days in the big city for work-experience, and he notices that his city colleagues always take their hats off when they  walk up to a building.

So he asks: **"Why do you guys take your hats off when you walk up to the building?"**
"Ah, that's so we can see if the residents are trying to drop a fridge out the window onto our heads!"

Question: Why do some people scream when they sneeze?
Answer: Could be cultural ties. Even the way people sneeze is influenced. Culturally and ethnically.  That's not the be all, end all reasoning... But it definitely influences it.

Question: How do people invest in stocks without going through a broker or brokerage firm?
Answer: Do you mean just like "how"? I used Robinhood (iOS app). If you mean figuring out what stocks to buy - that's a personal choice, but there are tons of resources online.

Question: Why do i always feel a bigger need to smoke when i drink alcohol? Is it purely the social part of smoking, or are there in fact other factors which are to blame?
Answer: I think it's just being intoxicated in general.  Why are you more hungry/horny/outgoing etc... when you're drunk? It's just easier to give in to your desires, whatever they may be.

Question: Syrian Refugees are being housed in Fresno county (Central California). How are the crazies separated from the real refugees? Is there a screening process or something they have to go through? Very curious how the refugee thing works.
Answer: Refugees have to be refereed either by the UN or from the individual Embassies overseas. Then they are screened and interviewed by officials from DHS and specifically Citizenship and Immigration Services, with cooperation from the Intelligence Community, and domestic and international law enforcement to spot either criminals or potentially dangerous or radicalized ones. They are also given a health screening to prevent the spread of communicable diseases before entering the country. 

The entire process can take over a year before a decision is made, which means if a person is any sort of crazy or serial criminal that is a lot of time for them to mess up and take themselves out of consideration. 

The US has a large natural benefit when it comes to this, because of the ocean it is much harder for anyone to come directly here, they end up in a camp in another country first, and are already to some degree screened, leading to a much reduced pool from which the US will then consider for Refugee assistance. 

_URL_1_

_URL_0_

Question: if muscles can work anaerobically, why do we need to breathe oxygen, on a biological level?
Answer: Without oxygen we would lose about 94% of our capacity to convert glucose to energy usable for our body. It generally doesn't take too long for this to become a problem.

Question: Why do we get to decide if Iran is allowed to make nuclear weapons?
Answer: Iran is a signatory of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and has therefore agreed to not build nuclear weapons. 

Source:
_URL_0_

Question: History of Reddit
Answer: It sounds like you're wanting to look at _URL_0_.

Question: Why did Canada get rid of the penny?
Answer: Canada got rid of the penny because the penny costs more to make than it's worth. 

A good video: [Canada gets rid of the penny](_URL_0_)

Edit: put in the right link

Question: Is there a mechanical reason fan switches often go from off to full power, and then down? (Ordered "0,3,2,1" on the switch)
Answer: Although the other answers may have some truth to them, one of the big reasons for this is that any electric motor will have a "startup current" that's much higher than the normal operating current. When the motor is physically rotating at a different speed than its electricity makes it "want" to rotate, it soaks up excess energy that all goes into heat and mechanical stress inside the motor. [Figure 7-3 in this book](_URL_0_) shows how the starting current can be 5 times as much as the normal current.

All the stress is bad for the motor and wears it out over time; so, they make the switches so that the most powerful setting is the one that's used during the first, most important, part of the turning-on process. That accelerates the fan quickly through its most vulnerable time.

Question: Why does glue not harden when it's in the container, but harden when it is poured out?
Answer: Glue only hardens when it is exposed to air, and the water inside it (which is what makes it fluid) evaporates.

Question: If memories are so susceptible to change over time, how can I be sure an event that I remember actually happened?
Answer: supporting evidence. Other people agree it happened, there are photos, diaries, souvenirs. There are lots of reasons to be trust your memories.

Question: Why does it feel better to have feet elevated when you sit?
Answer: Your feet take a lot of wear and tear, and are often in tight shoes and socks. Elevating them on a footstool repositions them so they're off the ground and not at the very bottom of your entire bloodstream's contents. It takes a little bit of the pressure off of them, meanwhile flexing the knees a bit so they're not rigid either.

Question: What actually causes graphical artifact in a video game?
Answer: What kind of artifact? Different graphic glitches can be caused by different things

Question: Does having a larger penis increase the likelihood of conception?
Answer: No, just like a longer needle doesn't increase the effectiveness of a vaccine. As long as it's sufficient for injecting the genetic material in the correct hole, that's all that matters.

Question: Why are Computer Malware so obvious to detect for the victim?
Answer: Some malware is obviously visible, like changing your browser's homepage to some ad-riddled horror show. Many casual computer users won't know what to do, so they'll just let it slide, and use the bloated crapshoot as their homepage, making the malware people advertisement money.

However, just because you can see some of it doesn't mean you can see all of it. One example is the (until recently) popular torrent program utorrent, which decided to bundle hidden malware in one of its updates, which would use your computer's processor(s) and internet connection to mine bitcoins for them. Had it not been for dedicated savyy people sending out warnings, most people would never have found the reason and would just have cursed the gods for their computer's newfound slowness.


Just because you can see one tiger prowling in the jungle doens't mean there isn't one just behind you in the bushes about to murder you.

Question: How does the on field screen work during the Superbowl halftime show?
Answer: While I could be quite wrong, I am fairly certain that it works something like this:
During the game, you'll notice that they put images onto the field, such as a marker indicating who has the ball, and the line they must cross before the end of the 4th down (Football is not my forte, so please excuse me if my terminology is wrong.) These images are not actually on the field, nor are they visible to the players, but a computer system draws these images. By knowing the location of a camera, and the direction that it is facing, it is possible to tell where, on a flat image (the one the camera produces), points on the field are. Furthermore, the computer system knows what the field looks like when there are no players / objects on it, so it can determine what is the field and what is not, making it possible to make it look like an item is "under" the player on the image, and not "on top" of everything.

This same technique can be used during the halftime show. Each camera knows where it is relative to the field, so a computer generated image can be placed, with some 3D graphics techniques, on the field, but under the participants in the halftime show.

Want me to clarify anything, or does this make sense?

I don't recall the Olympic opening in China, so I can't help with that.

Question: - Why some occupation titles have genders and some don't?
Answer: It's because we've been slowly winnowing the gendered occupations out of English. "Author" is a good example -- until probably the early 20th century, the word "authoress" was used to refer to a woman, but that dropped out of fashion.

The same thing is happening with "actress," and you can see the term "actor" being applied more and more to men and women equally.

Other terms that vanished in the 20th century include "aviatrix," for a female aviator, and "flight attendant" has become the accepted replacement for "stewardess."

If we go back even farther in time, we can find pairs like baxter/baker and webster/weaver, which dropped the feminine version a long time ago.

Also, gendered words like policeman/woman and salesman/woman are falling out of favor, to be replaced with police officer and sales rep.

Question: Is there an evolutionary benefit for men having beards other than helping with the ladies?
Answer: They actually have a surprising benefit if you spend a lot of time outdoors in the cold.  At least for me, I shaved off about six months of beard growth in the middle of this winter, and my face felt much, much colder.

It's not a huge benefit, but it was the difference between having to wear a scarf or not.

Question: Difference Between Heat and Temperature
Answer: You can think of temperature as being similar to the level of water in a bucket, and heat as being the actual amount of water in a bucket.

If you have two buckets, they might both be filled five inches deep with water. But if one bucket is much wider, that five inches represents a lot more water in the big bucket than the small one. Adding more water will raise the total amount of water in both by the same amount, but will raise the level more in the small bucket than the large one.

Question: Before college became a requirement for many jobs, how did employers screen and filter out candidates?
Answer: Basically before the late 90s you got a job by 'knowing a guy'

Most older people (over 50) you meet, if you ask them how they got into their career the story will start "I knew this guy..."

Question: When you have anxiety, why does your body feel weak or even have pain in your chest?
Answer: Anxiety is not just mental, it also causes the "fight or flight" effect. In essence your body prepares to run/fight an entity, this involves increased or erratic heart rate and other associated factors. This leads to the chest pain from your heart and lungs prepping for but not being used, kinda like redlining a car without ever shifting out of first. Not sure what you mean by weakness.

Question: How does a phone's (specifically an IPhone) cooling system work? Since it's a smaller computer, is it essentially the same?
Answer: Phones are designed to utilize passive cooling only. That being, they do not generate enough heat through standard operation to require a fan. This is due to the size, power, and space required for fans and various failure points introduced by them - and also any CPU that generated enough heat to require active cooling would not be usable as a mobile device as it would drain the battery very quickly. 

Since you mentioned the iPhone in particular, the most powerful iPhone's (iPhone X) CPU is the A11, I can't find exact specs on this but the power usage of the CPU is likely in the 5-10 watt range. For comparison, processors in laptops are usually in the 25-45W range (on the low end, these may not need active cooling to cool) and desktop processors tend to range anywhere from 65W to 85W+.

Question: What happens to me if my province goes bankrupt?
Answer: It means that the province won't pay back some of its debts/obligations.  That can take many forms.  For example, people own government bonds.  It's basically an IOU that they bought.  The government sold an IOU for $100 that they'd pay back $120 on some date, for example.  That might not get paid in full or at all in a bankruptcy scenario.  Similarly, governments have pension obligations.  They've told workers that if they work for the government for a time, they'll get money in the future for their retirement.  Those benefits might get reduced.

Even if you have no direct claim on the province, it will probably impact you.  The government is often one of the largest employers and spenders.  If the government goes bankrupt, it will mean people around you having less money.  You don't own bonds, but people in your town might and then have less money to be spending if they aren't paid back.  You might not have a government pension, but a lot of people might have less money to spend on things.  You might not be employed by the government, but if the government goes bankrupt and has to cut spending, it will create unemployment and lower services.  If the government can't borrow at low rates because it's a bigger risk, that makes investment in infrastructure much more expensive.

Even if you're not directly impacted, you'll be impacted by the fact that others around you are.  If you run a restaurant, pensioners now have less money and go out to eat less and the restaurant gets less income.  Maybe you have to lay off some workers due to lower patronage.  If the government isn't going to be able to spend as much on things like education, maybe people leave the province for other parts of Canada and housing values go down.

Things are very interconnected.  Even if you don't have a government pension that might get cut, a certain percentage of those that pay the money that likely ends up in your pocket somewhere down the line do.  Say you're a fisherman that supplies restaurants.  Pensioners spend less on luxuries like restaurants, the restaurants buy less fish from you, you have less money.

The impacts are likely greater on some than others.  If you directly have a government obligation, that's worse.  But it still isn't wonderful for anyone since things have ripple effects.

Question: How does a plunger work?
Answer: The plunger is bell shaped....so when you put it into the toilet, you are pushing a pocket of air down with it.  When you compress the plunger, the air is pushed against the clog, and with enough pressure it can dislodge the clog and get it moving. Try blowing out your mouth with your lips pressed together...it's the same concept.

Question: Why does American use a Presidential system, rather than a Parliamentary one?
Answer: Because we divide our government into separate branches and use them to limit the other branches. In a parliamentary system the legislative and executive branches are fused into one, which gives it more power, and in most parliamentary systems the judicial branch is partially fused as with it as well giving it even more power. In the US they are all separate and have powers to counter the other two. 

We also prefer to have a bit more of a democratic process by voting on who we want our States to vote for as President (electoral college). In a parliamentary system you do not actually get to choose your leader at all, it is chosen by the majority party in your parliament.

Question: Why is getting gold on Reddit such a big deal?
Answer: People will often use gold as a kind of super upvote. The recipient takes it as a compliment and confirmation that their post or comment was in some way more valuable to people.

Question: Why I can understand people speaking to me in my dreams, but when I try to read books or notes in my dreams the words are all gibberish.
Answer: In your dreams, you brain has to do double duty...it makes the world you are perceiving, and then it perceives it.  Some things, like complex and consistent visual details, are harder for it to make.  Sound, on the other hand, is more reactive...you hear whether you want to or not, and it is more of a reflex.

Question: Music for studying
Answer: I guess it depends on you. I myself don't listen to lyrics, but people who do could be distracted by them. So listening to instrumental music may benefit their concentration. 

My bet would be to not listen to music that begs for your attention all the time by using high pitched sounds and quick patterns. Your brain will just be distracted.

Question: how can DNA tests be used to show what your ancestry is?
Answer: We don't have exactly the same DNA -- everyone has some mutations in various parts of the genome.

Say you measure the DNA of 10 people from Thailand and their genome looks like this:

ACGTGCCCATCGCGATCG

Then you measure the DNA of 10 people from Italy and their genome looks like this:

AGGTCCCCATCGCGTTCG  (three mutations in that string, which is a lot in such a short space, but bear with me).

Then obviously if you get another sequence that looks like the one above you're more likely to have someone who's Italian than Thai.

On the other hand you might measure someone with a sequence that looks like this:

AGGTCCCCATCACGATCG (one variant that differs from either, one Thai variant, two Italian variants).

This person might be from a totally different place (maybe somewhere closer to Italy since there are two Italian variants and only one Thai), or might be a mixture of Italian and Thai, or might be a mixture of Italian and something else, and so on.

Most of the time you don't usually say a single mutation corresponds to a single group, but different groups have different allele frequencies.  Properly determining one's ancestry requires considering the clustering of these alleles and taking allele frequencies into account in the different populations.

It you have enough reference sequences from enough locations you'll become able to map a person's genome to their genetic ancestry.

Question: Stadium disasters
Answer: It's worth pointing out that when you hear 'stampede' people think of Mufasa dying trampled in the Lion King. This is overwhelmingly *not* what happens. 

What usually happens in these cases is more appropriately referred to as a crowd crush. Something causes a large number of people to try to exit at once, or form into close quarters. 

In many of these cases the people at the front are stuck or jammed, but they don't know that at the back and they keep walking forward. At more than 8 people in a square meter, crowds actually function more akin to liquids. This force of people walking and pushing, even falling, can be devastating when added together.  Those who fall do not get up.  People at the front exhale and the pressure is too strong to inhale again. They die standing in place. 

As for it being traumatic? Imagine being in a living, screaming, gasping wall of flesh.  You can't move. Your feet may not even be on the ground. If you can move, you're trapped in a seething mass of people trying to stay vertical. Completely powerless. That hits very close to some primal fears.

For larger disasters involving crowd crush look into the Station night club fire (do *not* watch the video) or the Mina disaster last year. Last I heard the death toll for this Mina disaster was around 2000, and it happens every few years there to a lesser extent. 

Crowd management is serious fucking business. A lot of older venues have really bad designs that lead to stuff like this. More modern places have been updated.

Question: Why is the symbol of the heart so different from what the actual organ looks like?
Answer: The symbol developed in the Middle Ages, when it was very rare to obtain permission to dissect a body; knowledge of anatomy was quite rare. What's more, there were few drawings available, so that most people with any knowledge of anatomy relied on written descriptions of what the organ looked like.

The earliest known depictions of a symbolic heart look like pine cones, which is how hearts were described in anatomical texts. Artists copied the symbol from each other, but without being able to reference a photograph or detailed drawing of a heart, the symbol took on a life of its own--artists made changes here and there, which others took over, until the symbol was quite unlike a pine cone nor an actual heart.

Eventually the symbol became standardized in more-or-less its current form, as on playing cards and the like. Once that form was understood as *the* heart form, that was a basic reference point for anyone using the symbol, and it did not change much after that.

It is only very recently, within the past three or four centuries, that an artist would be able to know what an actual heart looks like. And even then, they might not want to--because in art, the symbolic representation can be more important than a realistic one.

Question: "Quantum Cheshire Cats"
Answer: They didn't discover a method of tearing things apart, they are observing a phenomenon they don't have a proper explanation for yet, as with many things in quantum mechanics. 

Keep in mind that I am by no means an expert.

There is a fundamental property true for all quantum objects, in that you cannot determine one partner of a pair of complimentary properties with 100% precision. The more precisely you try to determine one, the less precisely you can determine the other one in a single measurement. This is called the uncertainty principle. Thus I am a little bit sceptical about their method of attempting to measure multiple parameters at the same time.

What they are doing here as it seems, is measure the location of a photon at the left side, where they have a 100% chance to travel to, but are able to detect just the polarization at the right side in a separate measurement, where the chance of them to travel to is 0%. Taking measurements here though causes a disturbance in the system, changing the path the photons take, and changing its location (it's no longer 100% on the left side), thus explaining why they could measure just the polarization at the right side now. 

Then, they try to measure both properties at the same time, with lower precision and with lower influence on the system as they say, but get the same outcome, the location being 100% on the left side, and the polarization being on the right side, which seems a bit paradox.

I feel this is ultimately a problem of the measurement influencing a system. To observe it, we have to disturb it.

Question: Why is Polygamy Illegal?
Answer: It makes taxes, inheritance, divorce, and lots of other things very complicated.

Question: I've learned today that some bugs and flies sees the world in slow motion. How does that work?
Answer: What we see isn't produced by our eyes but by how our brain interprets what our eyes see. For insects to see in slow motion just means that their brains process information from their eyes much faster than ours do. Also calling it "slow" motion is completely arbitrary as that is just a comparison to what we are used to. To the insect that is just normal vision

Question: How is Microsoft making money from Windows 10 if they are giving it away for free?
Answer: 1. They collect data on you by default for targeted advertising.

2. They have a lot of services that default or redirect to Bing, which they get ad revenue from.

3. Much of their business comes from corporations using their products, not individual users. Indeed, Enterprise builds are not covered by the same upgrade deal as Win 7/8.1 Home and Professional.

Question: What goes into starting an airline company?
Answer: Firstly you need a planes the smallest and most popular Boeing is the 737, it will set you back £70,748,963.76 per unit though you could get a lower price for bulk buying, to note if you buy them just after a terror attack they will be cheaper. It is what RyanAir did just after 9/11 attacks. Note a 737 can only do 60,000 flights, due to pressure fatigue making the plane more unstable the more it flies.  
  
Then you need someone to fly a plane a experineced captain goes for around £75,000 a year with the second pilot being around £50,000 a year, you need two second piolts for longhaul flights too.  
  
You also need people to tend the passangers, these are much cheaper with the wage being closer to £16,000 (Ryanair). You can also save money and have the cabin crew work the front desk before you get on the plane, when you show your ticket. You can also task these people to clean the plane after they land.  
  
You will also need mechanics, you could contract this out or keep it in house, if you keep it in house you will be looking at £30,000 a year wage per mechanic and more for a more specialist.  
  
Wendover productions on youtube has some good vidoes on this.

Question: The different types of alcohol (chemistry, not beverages)
Answer: Ethyl alcohol is ethanol. It has the chemical formula H₃C-CH₂OH (two carbons). This is what you find in alcoholic beverages.

Methanol has one carbon instead, with the formula H₃COH. This is what's dangerous in moonshine - methanol is much more toxic than ethanol because its metabolic products are formaldehyde and formic acid, the latter inhibits cellular respiration - so even though you have oxygen in the body, your cells can't use them because one of the enzymes in the pathway is blocked. Ethanol, on the other than, is metabolized into acetaldehyde (which is still bad, but neither aldehydes stick around for too long) and acetic acid (what's found in vinegar), which is far less toxic.

Question: why does a bathtub of water eventually get colder than the room
Answer: It doesn't. Our sensation of heat is not the same thing as temperature. Easy example: tile floors feel colder than rugs. In reality they're the same temperature. Our sensation of heat is because tile floor more readily absorbs our body heat than does a rug. The sensation of losing our body heat quickly is what we interpret as cold, despite the floors being the same temperature.

Grab a piece of metal vs fabric and the same thing happens. Metal conducts heat better, and we notice that as metal feeling cold as it steals our heat.

Question: What's up with merchandise at stores that have a certain price on the packaging itself?
Answer: I worked at a store that was similar to Dollar General, a lot of the stuff we got in would have that printed on it, but we sold it for less. It's just how some manufacturer's package the product.

I believe more often than not, those came from places where the store had its own manufacturer, and then we would get it as overstock. So they assumed it would be sold in whatever store they supply, and know that store's selling point for the product.

Question: Why is everyone so obsessed over Nikola Tesla? What could he have really done?
Answer: What do you mean by "could"? He did plenty things, like inventing AC power and the induction motor, among a [long list of other things](_URL_0_).

People generally like him because they view him as an underdog who wasn't given all the recognition he deserved, especially given his battle with Edison, in which Edison acted like a complete dick.

Some people also like his more oddball ideas that weren't realized, such as large scale wireless power transmission. This wouldn't have worked anyway, because it's enormously inefficient and would pretty much fry all the electronics around it. Such experiments were a lot more practical back when the main concerns were light bulbs and motors.

Question: If matter can’t be destroyed, what happens to an object when it is vaporized?
Answer: A vapor is still matter.  So are the people who were "vaporized" in the atomic blasts in Japan; they were simply broken down into much smaller component parts, probably gas, ashes and dust.

However, before they were vaporized, some of those poor people blocked the initial gamma ray burst and some part of the heat and debris of the blast, leaving a "shadow" of slightly less damage to the walls and sidewalks where they were at the time of the blast.  Again, not very much matter conversion and no matter destruction.

The atomic bombs themselves, of course, very much do work on the principle of converting matter into energy, which is about as close to the "destruction" of matter as we can get.  About 700 miligrams of the Hiroshima bomb was converted into energy.  That may not sound like much but the tragic results speak for themselves.

Question: How can it be that every lock in the world is different and there are not two of the same? Or isn't this the case?
Answer: It isn't the case.

It would be theoretical possible to have every lock in the world be different by making them all a different size and shape but it would be highly impractical.

Most locks operate with a series of different pins and lengths \- your standard household lock would have somewhere between 100,000 and 200,000 different possible combinations, which means that once they have cycled through their possible combinations they will start to repeat. 

But this number is still high enough that it makes the chances of somebody being able to randomly find another lock that matches a key they already have to be small enough to be essentially negligible. A lot of lock manufacturers will further extend the odds by separating batches into different distribution areas \- so they will sell unique locks only in each individual city.

Question: Technique
Answer: At its primitive sense, technique for me implies that someone does something with a certain way. Now the differentiation between good technique, and bad technique, is how well they achieve their end. Technique should be automatic, incorporating itself into almost a subconscious behavior. It improves the way we function and makes it streamline. To better that technique is to "raise the standard".

Question: how does catnip work and would it work on other animals.?
Answer: Works just like any other drug. Changing how long or how many neutral transmitters are left in the cleft to bind to the receptor neuron.

As long as an animal has similar receptors to the ones a cat has it should effect them also.

See _URL_0_
Some humans smoke it.

Question: How come Germany get to keep the 3 world cups from when they were West Germany? Surely when East and West united it became a brand new country?
Answer: Officially the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) ceased to exist, and it's territory was ceded to the Federal Republic of Germany. The current German state is technically the same one as west Germany, just with more territory than it used to have. Same as how the USA did not become a new country when Texas joined.

Question: What is the photoelectric effect?
Answer: Imagine for moment that electrons responded to sound instead of to light.

An electron will jump to higher energy levels in response to a sound of a specific pitch. Even if the sound is quiet it will still respond and jump to the higher energy level. However, even if the sound is very loud, if it is the wrong pitch, the electron will not jump to the higher energy level. 

Now, instead of sound, the electrons are jumping to higher energy levels based on light frequencies. Even a bright light will do no good, if it is the wrong color, but if it is the right color, even if it is very dim, it will kick the electrons to the higher energy level.

Disclaimer: This is only meant to be framework with which to try and decipher the text.

Question: What is the Anthropocene, why is it important that it be recognizes as a real event, and why would anybody be opposed to such a thing?
Answer: According to [Wikipedia](_URL_0_), it is "a proposed epoch dating from the commencement of significant human impact on the Earth's geology and ecosystems". Epochs are portions of the history of Earth on a geologic timescale, "longer than an age but shorter than a period*."

**For example, "Jurrasic" is a period spanning about 56 million years; epochs are something like 1/3 that time span.*

---

The Anthropocene is not yet an officially-recognized span of time by most agencies, mainly because it deals with human impacts on climate change, which is a politically-controversial subject these days.

So, recognizing the Anthropocene means recognizing that yes, humans have had an impact on climate change; and the beginning of that epoch is the start of it. Some people aren't ready for that, it seems.

Question: ...the immigration crisis. How can people be protesting kids? Why can't these children be adopted?
Answer: These kids have parents. If someone adopted a child with parents that want them it's called kidnapping...

Question: How did European's become light skinned?
Answer: Your skin has something called melanin which gives the skin its dark or light colour. More melanin means darker colour and less means lighter colour. The goal of melanin is to protect from UV radiation. Since there's less UV exposure up north, skin needs to produce less melanin and the people from there are thus lighter skinned.

Question: Why do small private colleges without large staff, facilities or research departments have such high tuition? Where does that money go?
Answer: Because small private schools lack state-funding, lack large, research oriented programs that draw in grant money, and lack major athletic programs to draw in revenue. These reasons (and others, I'm sure) make it so that if small schools want to keep the lights on, they have to charge more in tuition. It is not, in fact, done to line the pockets of administrators. 

Source: I've attended both types of schools.

Question: What are charter schools and why are they so controversial?
Answer: Charter Schools are publicly funded schools often ran by independent groups and may or may not be part of existing school districts.  They are often given more leeway in terms of deciding rules and curriculum than other public schools.

The controversy is that they are publicly funded which means funding for a charter school student is diverted from the traditional public school to the charter school they are now at.  The worry is that this will result in public schools being even more underfunded.  Some will respond that they now have one less student to pay for, but public schools lose the benefits of Economies of Scale.  Whereas they may have had the funding for a part time Occupational Therapist with X number of kids, of a few of those kids go to a Charter School, neither can afford and gain benefit from an Occupational Therapist.

Most laws set charter schools up so they are not allowed to discriminate who they allow in.  This often sets up heartbreaking scenarios in places where public schools are so poor and whether your child can receive a good education comes down, literally, to a lottery to see if they can get into a local charter.  However the other problem is they can often end up very self-selected.  Charter schools in failing districts end up filled only by children whose parents care enough to get them out of the existing schools.  Which leaves the existing schools with more problem students and less money to deal with them.

Other controversies surround exactly how independent charter schools should be allowed to be.  What happens when you get a charter school that wants to teach Intelligent Design?  Abstinence only sex-ed?  What do you if the school starts taking measures that result in de facto discrimination?  If it's so successful, why not bypass allowing Charters and take the political red tape of of EXISTING public schools?

On the other hand letting charter schools operate with less bureaucracy has allowed them to flourish in many places where public schools are failing.  Maybe some will be left behind, but isn't giving SOME students a chance better than giving NO students a chance?

It's not a simple subject.

Question: The "internet" to someone from the 1950s
Answer: Basically just go over the history of computers so that each step is easy enough to imagine from the last:

You know adding machines? Well we've made them better. Much better. Instead of being mechanically constructed to do sums or other things with numbers we enter with some buttons we've extended them to be able to do all that calculating from instructions written on 'punch cards'. The punch cards specify what numbers to work on and how. This way we can, without needing a human to press all the buttons or work it all out, get this computer to perform complex calculations. It can count up all the numbers fed into it by the punch cards or get the ratio of how many  of the values are above or below 5 or something, etc. Basically we replaced the buttons on the adding machine for pre-made punch cards that let you do the same thing without needing a human to push all the buttons. By putting census data or something on the punch cards we can feed it data and cards quickly without a human punching it all in manually.

Next we started advancing it further - instead of punch cards we made electricity the 'card'. Just like in a radio a current is used to make the speakers vibrate differently - and thus make noise - we can use a current to signify data or instructions to the computer. Varying voltage is used rather than holes in cards. This lets us feed things into the computer much faster.

Additionally we found ways to store the data without the cards. It's possible to make extremely small 'marks' on special-made disks. It's almost like grammophone records. We mark these disks and can read them back with a very small head.

This lets us store data and instruction sets on these disks which are far smaller than punch-cards and can be fed in more quickly.

We then took these so-called 'drives' and integrated them into the computer directly so we didn't have to load every instruction set or data set in disk by disk. Now you could save commonly-used instruction sets to the computer and the computer had a mechanism added so you could just ask it to load these programs from the drive. This meant we no longer needed to load the new instruction set every time we wanted to do different things; an operator could switch what it was doing quickly.

Next we made typewriter like 'keyboards' for the computers that let us start interacting with the computer. Special instruction sets were made to react to things we typed into it. If I typed in 'echo 5 + 5' the special instruction set would get the computer to add 5 and 5, then put the result on the monitor. (The monitor being like a TV that the computer can control to produce images for us.)

In time these computers were connected to the phone networks. Now computers could place calls to one another and exchange data using the phone network. This let us share things between computers. People started making centralized centres of knowledge for all sorts of things and we could ask our computer to call them to see this data on our own computer. 

Eventually the phone-line system was replaced with a dedicated cable network just for computer to talk to one another.

Question: Proxy War
Answer: You really hate your next-door neighbour James, but you work for him and you can't afford to just up and leave. Instead, you get your friend Bob to go over and occupy James's friend Tom's time, so James can't spend time with Tom. Repeat until James has no friends.

Question: Why does the USA have CIA,NSA,FBI?
Answer: FBI is internal, CIA is external, and NSA is oriented more toward signals intelligence than spies. Each has their own role but conceptually there is a lot of overlap and sharing of resources.

Question: Why does the Nintendo Zapper not work with modern televisions?
Answer: The Zapper was very precisely timed to the screens (the refresh rate, specifically). It looked for the screen to be drawn at a certain exact moment, and used that data to tell if you had, for example, hit the duck or not.

Today's plasma and LCD televisions have different refresh rates/timing, and are in fact less responsive (they have greater "latency") than the CRT TVs of the past. Since the timing isn't the same, the Zapper can't detect successful shots.

Question: What are the curving lines that appear in digital photos of computer screens?
Answer: [Moiré pattern](_URL_0_). It's what happens when the grid of pixels that create image on the screen and the grid of pixels that capture the image in the camera don't perfectly align, which is almost always because they only align at four angles (0°, 90°, 180°, 270°) and are not aligned at every angle in-between.

Question: In grade school we are taught that we can either use 3.14 or 22/7 as pi. But 22 divided by 7 is actually 3.1428(etc), not 3.1415(etc). Why are these used interchangeably?
Answer: 22/7 is the closest rational estimate of pi that we have which uses simple numbers in fractional form.  This makes it useful to young students who have trouble with decimal representation or with multiplying numbers with several digits.

For the purposes of grade school calculations, it's a close enough approximation that it usually won't make a difference - a few tenths at most - and is useful until students are more comfortable multiplying longer decimal numbers.

Question: how actors who only work in bit parts, make a living
Answer: How they make a living? Working in restaurants

Question: Google and all it's add ons.
Answer: If you have a Google account, all you have to do is go to _URL_0_ and you can check out Google docs for yourself. Just click the red create button in the upper left and create a new document. Just like Word, you can write some stuff in there, format it, etc.

Unlike Word, though, the document is stored in your Google account on the web, not on your hard disk. This means you never need to "send" the document to anyone else. All you have to do is give them permission to see it (click "Share" in the upper right and add whoever you want to share it with). Once they have permission, all they need is the link to open it. Then, you both can edit it at the same time...it's cool, you can see their cursor and they can see yours, and you can watch each other change it at the same time.

You can create presentations, spreadsheets, pretty much all the same kinds of documents you can with MS Office. And you never need to worry about saving, or losing your hard drive, or sending it to others. Just give whoever you want to see it permission to view or edit it, and send them the link. This is particularly useful when you want a lot of people to all work on the same document at the same time.

For instance, at work I often have a situation where I send out a document for lots of people to comment on. In the old days, this was a headache. I had to email it to everyone, and then they would all comment on their copy and send it back to me, then I had to open all the copies and manually merge them all into the same copy, then delete all the others. Or, you could send it to one person, have that person comment it, send it back to you, then you send it to the next person, etc.

With a Google doc, everyone is looking at and editing the same copy at the same time.

The thing to realize about a Chromebook is that it's a machine that is intended only to be used for working in the cloud. You can't really install applications directly on it (it doesn't have a hard drive), you can only browse the web. However, with things like Google docs keeping all your documents on the web, there's no reason this is limiting. If you want to install games or other applications that are not available through a browser, though, that won't work on a Chromebook.

However, if what you want to do is in the browser, there are many advantages to a Chromebook. For one, you never have to update or install anything. You never have to back up data, because there is no data. It's all in the cloud, and it's all already backed up. It's faster to do everything on a Chromebook because there's no huge, heavy OS running that has to manage all sorts of applications, and it's cheaper than a laptop, too. At the end of the day, though, it is a different thing than a laptop, so you have to decide...if you get a laptop and only do things you could have done with a Chromebook, you'll waste a lot of time, money, and effort dealing with it for a slower experience. If you get a Chromebook and want to install some application locally, though, you can only do that on a laptop.

Question: What happens when I put a magnet up to a computer monitor, or television screen.
Answer: A CRT display is based on firing a beam of electrons at a coated surface that lights up when hit by electrons. The display is controlled using an electromagnet to deflect the beam, so that the right bits light up to make the desired image. Moving another magnet close to the display messes up this control system.  
Newer display technologies like LCDs shouldn't be affected this way though, as they don't rely on controlling the magnetic field.

Question: How forums detect whether you're still online or not?
Answer: They tag you as "online" when you visit a page of theirs. After that, you're "online" for a certain period of time (say, 10 minutes).

If you haven't done anything on the site for that time, you're tagged "offline". Otherwise, your "online" timer restarts.

Question: Why do your emotions come in 'waves' after something very emotional occurs?
Answer: most emotions come from chemicals in the brain such as dopamine, oxytocin, adrenalin, serotonin, etc. When your brain starts to release these chemicals, it doesn't happen all at once. It begins to secrete them as if opening a valve. The flow starts slow until you get enough of the chemicals and your brain is filled with what it needs. So it feels like a wave because it starts slow and builds up until you're full.

Question: Why does 100 degree F water feel hotter then 100 degree F weather
Answer: When you put your hand in 100 degree F air the air around your hand starts cooling down. However only the immediate air around your hand. Air is a good thermal insulator which means that it will not transfer heat from the surrounding air to the air in contact with your skin very fast. The molecules are too far apart and do not crash into each other that often. However water is a good thermal conductor so the water in proximity of your hand will try to equalize the temperature much faster. You might have experienced similar things with metals that feels cold or hot to touch and you can not heat or cool them down at any pace, however a ceramic mug will not feel that extreme and will quickly be fine to touch on the outside.

Question: Why do we have historical evidence that Julius Caesar existed but none about Jesus Christ?
Answer: Because Caesar was actually important back then, unlike Jesus.

Question: - Objectification of women?
Answer: Objectification is the act of conceptually reducing someone to an object, a thing or tool based on their physical features or what they're capable of being used for, and otherwise disregarding their independence. 

A good reference to it i like is a line from Reggie Watts' song "Fuck Shit Stack"

 >  I like women, I like women, / I like the concept of a woman. / I like to take that concept and reduce it to an object, / I like to take those objects and put em in my videos. / Have them shake they jiggly bits so they looks like hoes.

Here and in the next verse, he satires the oft used practice in music videos to hire a bunch of busty, attractive women and use them for their sex appeal to increase make viewership.

So it seems like using someone's physical features is automatically, And the only form of, objectification, right?

Not quite. For one it does not have to be a real person for it to be objectification. In a sense, having any person real or fictional be used solely as a tool for someone else's benefit would similarly be objectifying. An example is the Trope known as woman in the refrigerator, where a fictional woman's sole role is to be killed off or brutalized in order to provide some sort of drive to The Narrative of a male character.

And as well, using one's own body is not objectifying. To many people, it is the loss of someone's agency that defines whether something is objectifying or not. Someone who themself chooses to use their own traits be they physical or otherwise, would not be inherently objectifying to themselves. However to others, doing so in a way consistent with the objectification of people within their group, be that by gender race ethnicity or otherwise, it's can be seen as perpetuating the objectification of that group.

Question: ; Why is Jesus on a cross the symbol for the religion and used against demons?
Answer: Jesus on the cross is dying for our sins, to absolve and protect all the rest of us. He protects us from our own "demons," that is, our sinful nature.

Remember, being crucified didn't destroy Jesus. He was resurrected shortly thereafter. It was merely an ordeal he went through on our behalf.

I think I've got this right. Perhaps a better theologian can correct me on the nuances.

Question: Why do sunsets/sunrises turn pink and orange, but those colors aren't present with the sun is actually up?
Answer: White light is every color of light combined.

When you see a rainbow, what you're seeing is the different waves of light separated.

At sunset/sunrises, sun light isn't aimed directly at you. It hits the atmosphere and bends to where you are. So instead of seeing an intense white light, you'll see shades of colors. 

And before you ask why you never see green sunsets, it's because it's in the middle of the spectrum of visible light. (You'll see  blue/yellow/purple/red more often than not.)

Question: Why does every elevator have a "door close" button if almost none of these buttons actually work?
Answer: They work fine when the fire key is turned.

Question: Movies used to show people dialing numbers like 555-1212. Why couldn't film producers secure ordinary phone numbers from the phone companies by buying them outright?
Answer: They can, and have. But why pay money when you don't have to? Also, they might not have that number forever, so whoever gets it after them will still get harassed. No point.

Question: Why can Netflix stream at 2.0 MB/s, but Steam can't get above 500 KB/s?
Answer: I think you are confusing megabytes (MB) and megabits (Mb). Does your ISP offer you 4 MB/s or 4 Mb/s? Megabits are far more commonly used when ISPs tell you your speed. A 4 Mb/s speed is roughly 500 KB/s (kilobytes) per second) so that sounds about right and your Netflix is probably able to utilize near the full connection as they pick the best quality you can handle so long as you have use HD checked.

Question: Can a commercial aircraft, like a Boeing 747, do a looping?
Answer: They can't loop in the nice circular sense. They don't have enough thrust to make it over the loop even if they start at max speed. However, if you're careful, you can get far enough over than, when you stall out, you're past vertical and can "flop" over to complete the loop in a rather ungrateful manner. You are extremely likely to over speed when pulling back to level. 

A barrel roll is no problem. 707s have done it at least twice for publicity.

Question: Why do people snort coke? Does coke get in the bloodstream through your lungs?
Answer: Nope, it enters through your sinuses.  Your sinus cavity has all kinds of membranes that the drugs can enter your bloodstream through, and the effect is pretty quick.  The only really quicker ways are smoking or injecting, which both require some equipment and preparation - snorting is quick and easy.  Eating or drinking is much slower, as the substance has to process through your digestive tract a bit before it starts getting absorbed.

Question: Why is it that certain weapons, like poisonous gasses, are banned from use in warfare by the Geneva convention, yet countries and governments can still use them against their own population, such as tear gas to control riots?
Answer: Geneva convention is largely a gentlemen agreement. No one wants their soldiers getting gassed or having to patch up wounds from hollow points. Its easier to just say no one gets chemical weapons and fight with conventional weapons, then it is to say "there are no rules" and everyone have them. Its already illegal for citizens to use tear gas on cops, so there is no objective reason to outlaw it for law enforcement.

The question of its something is humane or not doesnt really tend to stand in the way of most governments.

Question: Why can't I buy health insurance whenever I want (in the US)? What is a "qualifying life event?"
Answer: If you could buy insurance whenever you wanted, then no one would have insurance until they were sick.  Why would you? if you can buy insurance whenever, just wait until the doctor says that you have the serious disease, or until your kid is in the ambulance, and buy the insurance then. You save the money you have spent on insurance from all those months that you weren't sick, and still get coverage. 

Of course, the problem with that is it would make insurance impossible. No one would get it until they needed it, which would mean it would either be so expensive no one could afford it, or that no one would offer it. 

In the absence of something like single payer healthcare---or some other, non-insurance based system---there's really very little alternative.  The idea of the qualifying life events, which include things like having a kid, or getting a new job, or getting married, plus the "open seasons" is to force people to assess their risks and then get insurance that suits them, without either locking them in to one insurance forever, or letting them freeride in a way that destroys the system entirely.

Question: How do we create saliva in our mouths and where does it come from?
Answer: I don't have any reference materials, so I can't to much detail, but nobody else answered yet, so I'll do a summary.

Saliva is a combo of mostly water and proteins with a little bit of dissolved salts. It comes from salivary glands that are placed in several places around your mouth. Mostly under the tongue. A gland is basically a pocket. The cells that make up the pocket are specialized to make the proteins and release them through their cell walls into the pocket. They also have gates that let them bleed a little bit of water that comes from the cells who absorbed it from your blood. The salts mostly just followed the water.

Hopefully a more detailed answer will come along for you later if you're still interested.

Question: Why do we have a tax bracket system as opposed to a continuous sliding scale?
Answer: Probably just to simplify things. Imagine being an employer or personal accountant, having to count how much taxes someone pays. Brackets lets them estimate their income, choose a clearly defined bracket, and see how much income tax is. On a sliding scale, they will need to know their exact income for the year, and probably have to do some math too, since a sliding scale would probably have the tax as a function of their income, not just a discrete number. And then, what if their income changes throughout the year? "Oh you got a raise, 'grats. Now I have to do your taxes from scratch" or "Shit, he's working over time. Now I have to recount how much to deduct from his paycheque". 

And it doesn't even change all that much. Since tax is paid as a percentage, going from a bracket to a sliding scale would make only a tiny change in someone's income tax

Question: Why do standardized tests each have unique and seemingly arbitrary score ranges? (e.g. SAT 400-1600, ACT 1 to 36, LSAT 120-180, MCAT 472 to 528, USMLE Step 1 1-300)
Answer: The short answer is that it is arbitrary.

The longer answer is that the scoring systems reflect the priorities of the test makers.

Many test creators intentionally set the lowest score far above 0 to make it more obvious that they are interval scales, not ratio scales.  In other words, a score of 900 on the SAT is not "twice as high" as 450 because for something to be double, triple, 1.5x, 0.5x, or any other multiplier you need to be counting from 0, not 400.

A lot of tests set the average score to be close to a nice, round number.  For instance, SAT standardizes so that 1000 is about average, 500 is about average on MCAT, and 150 is about average on LSAT.  The actual average varies from test to test, but they're designed so that it's easy for a test taker to see where they stand.

ACT, on the other hand, uses 36 because it factors nicely into the number of questions on each section of the test.  Multiplying the percent right by 36 gives you a clean-looking number without repeating decimals.  

USMLE doesn't disclose how they do their scoring, so I really don't know why they picked 1-300.

Question: If Flash and Java plugins are going to be removed from Firefox and Chrome, why can't they make "good" versions of the plugins that will still work?
Answer: The problem isn't with the plug-ins but rather security issues with the core languages of Flash and Java. Mozilla (which makes Firefox) and Google (which makes Chrome) feel that there aren't ways to make safe use of those languages for web-based services through your browser.

Question: Why is it that humans have a lot more distinct feature where you can tell one apart from another, but animals almost always look the same?
Answer: Three  things: There’s a phenomenon where people have a hard time telling people of a race different than their own apart, because their brain hasn’t practiced seeing those types of faces. I would assume this is also the case with animals. Basically, we’re good at identifying human features because we see them a lot, but we don’t have practice with other animals.  
Second, the human brain is wired from birth to recognize human faces. Newborns will stare at vaguely face-shaped things. This implies that we have an instinctive recognition of human faces.  
Third, not all animals have the same diversity as we do across a small population. Most squirrels, fish, raccoons, etc. in an area look the same because they’re not as genetically diverse as people.

Question: Why do we move our whole body around while playing a video game as if we are in the game?
Answer: Your brain consists of neurons that are connected to one another, and these connections strengthen over time through repetition.

In your whole lifetime you've learned that the way to evade an object flying at your head is to move certain muscles. So when some neurons send a signal "there's something flying at my head" the nerves that move these muscles get an automatic signal.

Question: How Car Lighters Work
Answer: At the basic level, wires that don't conduct electricity well generate heat as they resist the flow of it. When you plug a cigarette lighter into your car's port, the electricity does just this: generates heat on a wire. Once it glows red, it is hot enough to light a cigarette if touched to it.

Question: The body can self heal wounds and broken bones etc. Why not regrow limbs after amputation?
Answer: It is theoretically possible, as some species of lizards con do it. However, evolution drove us towards scar tissue, which serves to seal the wound from infection long before the limb could regrow.

Question: How do spacecrafts such as Juno send data back to earth?
Answer: Via radio waves.  NASA and other space agencies have huge antennae arrays that can pickup the very weak signals that are being sent by the probes.

Question: Please ELI5: why too much salt is bad for you.
Answer: Basically too much salt can increase your blood pressure (bad) as your body has limited ability to remove it.

The reason salt increases your blood pressure is due to a concept called homeostasis. 

Say you have two water tanks with a pipe in between them with the level equal.. if you add water to one, half that water will go into the other and the levels would be equal again.. this is homeostasis.

Homeostasis also applies to the concentration of liquids. If you added salt to one of these tanks (A LOT), water would go to the tank you added salt to, to correct the concentration.. in this case the salt concentration pressure (oncotic) must over come the pressure of the fluids (hydrostatic pressure) to see a change.

So if you add salt into your body, you increase the concentration of electrolytes, therefore more water is retained to correct that concentration.. 

and increased volume = increased pressure.. think about a balloon, as you fill it up with more and more air the pressure increases till it explodes!

= increased blood pressure.

Tried to keep it LI5 as possible .. first time not sure if that's a good job :P

Question: How does Sensodyne toothpaste work?
Answer: Essentially, your teeth get sensitive when the dentine within the tooth is exposed. On a microscopic level, the dentine has these little tubes that pass on impulses to the pulp, which is the nerve on the tooth. 

So when you get a cold ice cream on it, it will transmit the signal straight to the pulp, giving you that jumpy sensation. Normal teeth don't have this problem because it has enamel on it but enamel can break down for various reasons i.e acid or wear of teeth. 

Sensodyne works by blocking those tubes in the dentine with a compound in the paste, thus reducing the impulses sent back to the pulp. This makes your tooth less sensitive.

Question: How do they determine the caloric value of different foods?
Answer: Originally they used a [bomb calorimeter](_URL_1_) but now it is just calculated using the [Atwater system](_URL_0_) from the percentages of individual components.

i.e.

if we know the energy in a single gram of protein, fat, carbohydrate, fibre, or sugar then we just need to know how many grams of each is in a piece of food and add them up.

Question: Why is Oman such a 'quiet' nation despite being right in the middle of chaos?
Answer: I should begin with the disclaimer that I'm not an expert in the subject. That being said, I do have a very strong interest in geopolitics and can hopefully provide a half-decent answer until someone better educated comes along. Of the top of my head, I can think of three potential reasons for why Oman is relatively stable compared to other Middle Eastern countries.

First, most Muslim states (in the Middle East and elsewhere) are either predominately Shia or Sunni. Oman is the one exception to this, as it is primarily Ibadi. As such, it has largely stayed out of Shia-Sunni conflicts.

Second, it has a relatively diverse economy, which means that it is more stable than if it was solely based on oil. You can also see this is the UAE (particularly in Dubai) and other areas of MENA with a diversified economy.

Third, I think that your original premise is based on a flawed assumption. You said that it's in the middle of chaos, but it isn't. Oman borders 3 other states: KSA, Yemen, and the UAE. Of these, Yemen is the only one that is currently undergoing significant strife. Compared to other parts of the Arab world (Somalia, Palestine, Iraq), the Gulf States (with the exception of Iraq) are relatively stable and prosperous.

Question: If diamond is the hardest substance, and you can only cut it with other diamonds, how were diamonds originally acquired?
Answer: Diamond is very hard, which means it is very resistant to scratching. It has a very low toughness though, which is the resistance to impact.

["Somewhat related to hardness is another mechanical property toughness, which is a material's ability to resist breakage from forceful impact. The toughness of natural diamond has been measured as 7.5–10 MPa·m1/2."](_URL_0_)

This means that you can 'cut' diamonds by fracturing them, instead of grinding and sawing through them. 

---

To answer your question, diamonds are embedded in different types of rock and soil. Diamond may be very hard, but the material surrounding it is not as hard. Diamonds are not found as large slabs, but as tiny stones.

Question: Why did TV and computer screens used to flicker in videos, and now they don't?
Answer: CRTs work by scanning a electron beam left to right 15 to 100 thousand times a second while scanning top to bottom at 50 to 120 (numbers are approximate) times per second. That fills the screen, but the beam only hits one spot at a time. The phosphors glow brightly at first but start to fade quickly. By the time a spot is scanned again its intensity had faded significantly. If the video camera and the monitor are running at the same frame rate, the result is pretty good, but if they are running at different rates you see flicker. 

LCDs can also have flicker, but not as bad as CRTs. Plasmas have very little flicker on camera. 

Source: am a broadcast TV engineer who has to deal with flicker.

Question: Drag. The origin, history and culture of men dressing up as women.
Answer: I don't know if this is the origin, but it's certainly part of the history:

In ye olden tymes (going back to Shakespeare and far earlier), it was unlawful (or at least very very frowned upon) for women to act on stage. Boys were frequently used to portray women, and some actors even found a rich niche acting in female roles. 

At least, this was true in Europe. I can't speak for Asian theater.

Question: Why is the Great Gatsby considered to be the pinnacle of American Literature?
Answer: your question is a bit flawed because all art is subjective, so what you may think to be a rather dull book can be considered to be a masterpiece by a lot of other people (myself included). And it's for the latter reason that books like The Great Gatsby attain status as a "classic"; because enough people agree that it's important enough to study and preserve for future generations; your teachers included.

Now why "The Great Gatsby" in particular? It's actually an awesome book to show the depth that literature can have. It's told from a first-person POV, but the POV character isn't necessarily the main character of the book (There's an argument that I've had with my friends whether Carraway or Gatsby is the main character. I say it's the latter but I digress). It's an extremely accurate portrayal of a seminal period in American history, mainly because it was written during that time period. All that extravagance you read in the book actually happened and serves as a stark contrast to the Great Depression which would hit a few years later. Also important to note is that F. Scott Fitzgerald himself could be seen as a parable for Gatsby. He wasn't as poor as Gatsby, but he lived a lifestyle comparable to that in the '20's and had his own personal demons to wrestle with (mainly his rampant alcoholism). In addition, "The Great Gatsby" is a fantastic book to study symbolism. The green light represents a goal Gatsby strives for, but will never have, the eyes of TJ Eckleberg symbolize the growing commercialism of America, and of course, there's the commentary on the divide between "old" money and "new" money. Finally, and like I said this is subjective, but many people consider the book to be beautifully written. The last lines "So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past" is just beautiful IMO.

In short, there are lot of factors that have probably lead your teachers to proclaiming it "the greatest work of American literature". A  lot of people would agree with them but remember, there's no such thing; it's merely an opinion, but one hammered into cultural conciousness through repitition and reputation. I enjoy "Mice of Men" as well, but Steinbeck is a much different writer than Fitzgerald so it'd really be like comparing apples and oranges.

TL;DR: Art is subjective, but a lot of people like The Great Gatsby. I listed reasons why this may be, but remember, they're just opinions and you're allowed to have your own.

Question: What, exactly, is poo made of?
Answer: I'll tackle the Fiber question and I can punch it out with how tired I am.

Basically we cannot digest fiber; so what happens is it is a long  polysaccharides chain that scrapes the side of your intestines as it passes and this stimulates your bowels to release a mucus. This mucus helps lubricate the feces as well as keep it from drying out. The fiber also helps hold the feces in a solid chunk.

Question: the current terrorist threat that is causing the US to shut down embassies in the Middle East
Answer: A conversation was allegedly intercepted between two top level members of AQAP (Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula) speaking in very general terms about a terrorist attack in the very near future. Given what happened at Bengazi last September, the Obama administation is using an abundance of caution because the last thing they need is more dead American ambassadors on their hands.

Question: Examples of tax deduction and exemption
Answer: tax deduction is something you paid taxes on when you got it, but can remove it from your taxes at the end of the year. Most business expenses count, so if your office bought a table then you spent earned money (usually taxable) on that table, but since it was a business expense you can deduct the cost of that table from your taxes, so that earned money isn't taxed.

Tax exemption is when you don't pay taxes on it in the first place. Not for profit charities, and churches are tax exempt, and none of their earnings get taxed in the first place.

So a deduction is something that should get taxed but gets removed because of how it is used, and an exemption is not supposed to be taxed in the first place

Question: Why don't any larger animals have compound/multiple eyes like bugs do?
Answer: Depth perception, visual acuity, and distance. Compound eyes don't fair very well on any of those factors, all of which are far more favorable than having a large cone of view, especially in light of possessing other senses (namely hearing and scent) and ocular muscles.

Question: In the Imperial Measurement System, why are "pounds" abbreviated as "lbs."?
Answer: [_URL_0_](_URL_0_)

Just use the search function next time?

Question: Why is it that you cannot fix a flat tire if the hole is on the side?
Answer: The tread surface of a tire is much more rigid because that's the part of the tire designed to make contact with the road.  The sidewall is much more flexible because it is designed to adapt to changes in tire pressure without bursting.  Sealing the tread is easy because the patch will remain relatively still, but a patch in the sidewall will be the weak point for a flexible and high-pressure surface.

Question: Why does pouring water on grease fire increase the amount of flames?
Answer: Grease is an oil, it's a liquid at burning temperatures.

Oil and water don't mix, so when you squirt water on grease you get balls of water in oil and vice versa.  The balls of water in oil are a big problem.  The oil is over 212˚F (100˚C) so the water boils into steam.  The steam expands, spreading the oil into a big, thin sheet, before it pops.  Now you have a big, thin sheet of burning oil and the pop sends it flying through the air.  Super-bad.

Question: how Americans are okay with insanity they call insurance companies
Answer: There is.  Pretty much everyone hates the insurance companies.  But half of us don't think that any of the proposed alternatives would actually be any better.  

Also, for the majority of Americans the healthcare system is actually quite good, despite what you see on reddit.  Quality care is available without significant delay, and the billing/insurance process, while completely absurd and a huge pain to deal with, doesn't actually cost what reddit seems to think it does.  Regardless of what the bill may say, nobody is actually paying half a million dollars for a sprained ankle.  Or an emergency brain surgery.

Question: Why does electricity conduct better through different materials?
Answer: In a metal the electrons 'float' in a sea around the nuclei, they are not bound to a specific atom.  In wood each electron is mostly bound to a specific nuclei.  The flow of electricity depends on how free the electrons are to move around.

Question: Why is it advised to cut down on salt when one is bodybuilding?
Answer: Someone can feel free to correct me, but I believe this is due to the osmosis of the water in our body. With too much salt, the water in your body will retain more making you look bloated. Potassium helps this, because then you will have more potassium for the sodium potassium pump. So the salt or sodium will be removed from the body

Question: How are acids named? (Chemistry)
Answer: It's a combination of systematic naming and what's always been done.

If it's an organic acid, that is, it has a carboxylic acid group in it attached to some number of other carbon groups, it is named based on the IUPAC naming scheme, for which wikipedia is probably your best explanation.  Examples of organic acids you might know are ethanoic acid aka acetic acid aka vinegar, or butanoic acid which is present and lends its distinctive smell to both vomit and parmesan cheese.

As for mineral acids, they're generally called something which makes some sense based on what they're made of, but there isn't a general rule. HNO3 is Nitric Acid, and it's formed from a Nitrate group and a hydrogen, and HClO2 is chlorous acid as it's formed from a chlorate group.  Then you go and get hydrochloric acid, HCl, with just breaks the pattern altogether.

Question: Rhythmic modes in Medieval music
Answer: I could be mistaken, as I'm not overly familiar with older forms of music theory, but I thought medieval rhythmic modes were just the first (known) attempt in history to denote rhythm *in the written form*. Prior to the advent of medieval rhythmic modes sheet music contained pitch information, but the rhythm of any particular piece would have to be learned by observing another person play the piece. Modern sheet music conveys similar information to a player, although through different methods, most notably with the use of beamed notes and time signatures. If my impression of medieval rhythmic modes is mistaken please advise me, as I'm always interested in an opportunity to learn more music theory.

If you're looking for an explanation of how to *read* medieval rhythmic modes I'm sorry I can't be of more help... but with the exception of historical research I'm not too sure why it would be useful to learn how to read medieval rhythmic modes in the first place. Modern sheet music is more than adequate, and the vast majority of work from that time has been transcribed to modern sheet music.

Question: How did 'John/Jane Doe' become the generic name for an unidentifiable person?
Answer: In English law before the 19th century, there was a lot of emphasis placed on very technical matters. This often led to the real issue not nicely fitting in a standard lawsuit form. For instance, if you had a dispute with someone about who owned a piece of land, you couldn't really sue them directly to argue that (too unwieldly). Instead, you would pretend like you had leased the land to a friend, who would then sue them as though they were a trespasser. That way, you wouldn't have to deal with the technical parts of the formal challenge-a-title claims. 

Over time, people stopped having *real* people for these fake leases; they would make up a fake person who they had given a fake lease, and who would sue another fake person which the real defendant had given a different fake lease to. The plaintiff's fake person was called John Doe; the defendant's was Richard Roe. It was a legal fiction to get around stupidly technical rules.  

Those rules have since been changed to put more emphasis on what happened and less emphasis on technicalities, but the names stuck as placeholders in legal actions (this is why it's *Roe* v. Wade: the plaintiff wanted to be anonymous, and so they used a placeholder name). And from there, it developed into a more general placeholder.

Question: When upside down, how are you still able to swallow.
Answer: Peristalsis.

That is the name for the contraction of myscles that forces food along its path. It is what allows you to eat upside down and what allows astronauts to eat in 0 g. 

Incidently, not all animals have it. Birds dont, which is why they tip their head up when swallowimg and why we can't take birds into space.

Question: How does "Whataboutism" differ from giving context to information?
Answer: "Whataboutism" was a technique first used by the Soviet government and press in order to deflect criticism by America of the USSR's human rights record. Whenever an article appeared in an American newspaper of, for example, Stalin's purges, the Soviet press responded with a critique of racial segregation in the US. This happened so regularly, that it almost became a running gag that whatever America said, Russia replied: "And you are lynching Negros."

The point is that while it was certainly true that the US had serious problems with rampant institutionalised racism in some quarters, this had nothing to do with Stalin killing untold numbers of people who disagreed with him. As the old adage has it: "Two wrongs don't make a right."

"Whataboutism" is, at its core, an attempt to *change the subject*. Far from "giving context", it changes the subject to a different person (or country). There's no attempt to debunk the original criticism.

For example, if Harry is accused of shoplifting, he can't defend himself by saying that Tom is a terrorist. Whether Tom is or isn't a terrorist is totally irrelevant to Harry's alleged shoplifting.

But sometimes saying "what about...?" is legitimate. It's only legitimate if it *actually* addresses the topic at hand, for example:

Mary: "I heard the political party you support wants to ban sports. What's that all about?"  
Helen: "What about the party you support with its campaign to arm toddlers? Why aren't you talking about that?"

Here, Helen doesn't want to talk about the sports ban, so she tries to change the subject to guns for babies.

Mary: "I am a safe driver."  
Helen: "What about all those tickets you got for speeding and DUI?"

Here, Helen is still talking about Mary's driving, but is simply calling into question her claim to be a safe driver by citing instances where she was caught driving dangerously.

Question: How do ad networks work?
Answer: Ad networks generally have agreements with a lot of popular websites.  The ad network pays the sites to place their ads, and vendors pay the ad networks to display their ads in those spots.

When / if you click on one of those ads it brings you to the vendor's website.  The ad network tracks where you saw the ad, when you clicked on it, and where you went.  If you actually purchase a product after that, it is called a "conversion".

Ad networks often use a "pay per click" business model as well, where the vendor will pay the ad network for every ad click.  In other words, they are paying the ad network just to get people to click on the ads... thereby visiting the vendor's site.  More traffic to the site means more chances for sales to be made.

Question: What determines if you are burning fat, muscles or calories?
Answer: I assume you meant 

 > What determines if you are burning fat, protein, or carbohydrates?

It is dependent on a number of factors, the type of exertion does not matter. Running or weight lifting alone do not determine which energy source your body uses. As I think you meant to say, there are three energy reservoirs our body can use: fat, protein and carbohydrates. Generally speaking you have three states, resting, moderate and heavy. Resting is sitting on the couch or sleeping. Moderate is walking up the stairs, hiking, lifting weights. Heavy is sprinting, marathon running and such. For a average person, your body burns carbohydrates the vast majority of the time, and almost never protein, regardless of your activity level. There is always some small level of fat being burned as well. At a moderate level, you burn a higher percentage of fat than at rest or at a high activity level, but because you burn more calories overall at a high activity level, you don't burn more fat at a moderate level. This is why those fat burning zones are actually BS. An average person will burn through their carbohydrate sources fairly quickly, so the body will switch over to fat burning. Fat has a higher energy density than carbohydrates, that's why we store a lot of fat and very little sugar. Athletes have been shown to almost instantly switch to fat burning during activity. Your body will burn protein only if you are starving.

TL/DR; Your activity level and duration determine what your body is using for energy

Question: Why are you ordered to register as sex offender if you are peeing in public? There is no sexual matter involved in peeing.
Answer: There is no sexual component in peeing, no. But there is a sexual component in purposely showing your genitals to other members of the public. 

The thing is, it can be very hard to gauge the motive someone had when they were peeing in public. Were they genuinely desperate and couldn't wait, or are they peeing there because they are pretty much getting off on having any sort of excuse for getting their dicks out in public? Some jurisdictions take a very cautious approach and make all people caught peeing in public register.

Question: Why do you bite your tongue, cheek or lip while chewing?
Answer: We use our tongue and cheek to position and rotate the food between our teeth. When we push a piece of food the wrong way or overestimate the amount of force needed to position the food, we bite ourselves. Chewing wouldn't work so well if we were just chomping up and down letting the food fall where it may!

Question: Why do doctors offices that know they're going to busy only keep one available doctor in office? Why are the others just having a day off?
Answer: So a lot of this will vary based on where you are and what type of "doctor's office" you are talking about. But in general doctor's offices (and some other businesses like cable companies) will schedule very tightly to attempt to see as many people as possible. Yes, this means longer wait times for the consumer like waiting an hour for a doctor or getting a vague "we'll be to your house between 9am and 4pm. But it also means that the doctor is constantly seeing people and not just sitting around waiting for the next appointment. A lot of this is because you never know if its going to be a simple 5 minute checkup or an hour long complex issue where they need to run multiple tests. If they didn't overbook, that means they'd have to schedule EVERY appointment to be a long one, even knowing that most won't be. Meaning the doctor sees WAY less patients throughout the day.

If they were to change it like that, you'd see a large increase in costs (they are still going to want to get paid, so if they are seeing less people they need to make more per person) and most importantly you'd see a huge delay in how quickly you get service. Instead of calling in sick and them being able to squeeze you in that day or the next, they'd be saying they still have 1 spot open late next week. Or when your cable goes out, they'll be able to send you a tech three weeks from now. It just wouldn't work.

As to how many doctors to have available, depending on where you are there is a good chance that there isn't just extra doctors on hand they could schedule for that day. So if one is gone for whatever reason (Doctors need time off too you know) the others just have to be shorthanded and work through it until they get back. If its a larger area where thats not the issue, then its usually just like a restaurant. They try to schedule as best they can for what they forecast the day to be, but sometimes its busier than they expected it to be. The more unannounced walk-ins there are, the longer wait times will be.

Question: How did we develop all this advanced technology in less than 300 years when it took us hundreds of thousands just to learn how to farm?
Answer: The major catalyst was the industrial revolution in the late 18th and early 19th century.

Political stability and the ability to efficiently produce food were contributing causes to the industrial revolution happening.

Question: Why do planes need to be pressurized?
Answer: At high altitudes the atmospheric pressure is very low - there's less air than there is down at the surface. If the plane wasn't pressurized there wouldn't be enough air to breathe.

Question: Why Do Movies Shot 30 Years Ago Look “Old” When Played Now?
Answer: Technology in camera equipment has come a long way. Lenses have gotten better. Lighting has gotten better. The art of film has been perfected over the years. But I think the main factor of this "old" look has to do with post production. Back in the 70s and 80s they didn't have the computer power to color correct films like they can today. Every frame of today's films are finely tuned to be color balanced. So in other words, back then, what you filmed was pretty close to what you wound up with. While today the difference between the raw footage and the final result is very different. All that post production processing makes a huge difference. 
(I work for a post production VFX house so I get to see this in action)

Question: If permanent colonies were built on the Moon, how would someone born there be effected on Earth due to the differences in gravity?
Answer: The moon *does* have gravity. It's a lot lower than Earth's, but it's still there - a lot more than the microgravity experienced on the ISS. 

All we can really do is theorise, but the likelihood is that if someone grew up/lived a long time in lower gravity, coming down to Earth would be pretty traumatic. Your bones and muscles would absolutely not be used to this kind of strain. Everything would seem very, very heavy (including yourself). You'd likely have trouble walking under your own power, and if you fell down you'd be a lot more likely to break a bone. 

There are definitely *advantages* to growing up/living in lower gravity, but we're not really built to experience much higher gravity than what our body ends up accustomed to. 

It's basically the same as if us Earthlings go to a planet with 6 times the gravity. It'd be hellish.

Question: Self driving cars become common. Who is responsible for crashes and accidents?
Answer: It is impossible to answer this question. The laws / terms of insurance have not been written yet. Like so many things, they probably won't be written until the first accidents start happening.

Question: why does water taste so sweet after vomiting?
Answer: I'd say there are a couple of reasons. 
Firstly, the water washes away the acid residue left over in your mouth by your stomach fluids, causing relief of the burning sensation and that might be perceived as sweet. 
Also your body is most likely craving water due to the sudden onset of dehydration that was probably caused by you expelling all that liquid, and we all know how sweet water can taste when you're dehydrated. 
As for sweating, i believe it's caused by the stress on your upper body's muscles due to heaving, when your body needs to get rid of something asap, most of the muscles on your chest and back are used to heave and push it out, that stress produces heat, and in order to cool down your body produces sweat.

Question: What is the actual purpose of having a United States Space Force?
Answer: I think the idea is to split the responsibility for space off of the Air Force, much like how NASA was split off for civilian aerospace work. The Air Force actually spends more on space operations than NASA (moreso if you include agencies like the NRO). Putting that as it's own organization would, in theory, let them focus on the core mission better. 

Not really sure I agree with it, since most of the best ideas come from the cross-pollination of different fields, and trying to silo space completely will, I think, be more harmful than helpful.

Question: Why baseball stadiums are different sizes
Answer: Tradition.  And more than any sport, baseball is a slave to tradition.

When professional baseball was in its infancy, there were no dedicated stadiums.  Teams would play wherever they could find the space, usually somewhere used primarily for something else.  The Yankees, for example, used to play on polo grounds.

This lead to every park being a little different, depending on space.  When teams started building dedicated stadiums, there were no standards, and every facility was build how each team wanted.  By the time the league was organized enough for standards, there were a bunch of parks with a bunch of different sizes, and no one wanted rebuild theirs.

Question: Why does your skin heal faster at night than during the day? May it be for cuts, wounds, spots, acne etc...
Answer: Because your body's resources aren't dedicated to moving you around, talking, seeing, etc. Also because you're not moving around, touching your injuries and generally making things worse.

Question: What causes blood to seep out of cuts and scrapes?
Answer: For blood to come out of a wound, some kind of blood vessel must be damaged. If the cut or scrape is very small, then these blood vessels were likely capillaries.

Question: - What are undersea cables, and how do they work?
Answer: Undersea cables (aka submarine cables) are made up of bundles of fiber optic cables running along the ocean floor that connect different parts of the world (e.g. North America and Europe) to exchange data/internet communications and telephone conversations.

The first submarine cable was laid all the way back in the 1850s and was used for sending telegrams. Obviously, the cable was not made out of Fiber Optics then, but we use optics now because it allows us to carry massive amounts of information on a single strand of glass (or plastic) fiber over long distances using laser light.

These cables exist pretty much everywhere. Here are a couple of maps showing where some of the cables are located:

[ONE](_URL_1_)

[TWO](_URL_0_)

Question: I was always told not to put a fridge or AC on an extension cord. Why?
Answer: Refrigerators and AC units have a much higher peak power draw than most household appliances. An extension cord that isn't rated to handle that kind of draw could overheat and short, or cause a fire.

Question: How are humans able to talk and hear their voice inside their head?
Answer: Something to do with the brain neurons (maybe associated with the limbic system and hypothalamus) that ultimately leads to consciousness. Consciousness is still a mystery unsolved -- no one really knows what it is, how to accurately define it etc. But that voice inside the head operating while you carry out other automatic or semi-automatic functions (plus all your other emotions, thoughts, experiences and more) are part of your consciousness.

Question: in the USA, when does a dad (or mum) in full time employment see their children?
Answer: You work 9-5 in a lot of jobs, meaning that you see your kids in the morning and evening.

Question: Why does it hurt significantly more standing on a 10 min bus ride, over walking for 20 minutes when commuting?
Answer: Standing tends to strain the same muscles over a long period of time. Walking spreads the load over several sets of muscles, so that while you're technically expending more energy no one set of muscles have to bear the load for the entire period.

Question: How do TOR/.onion sites make you completely anonymous, even to the government/FBI?
Answer: **Note: Tor is a bit more advanced than just proxying.** 

Tor works like this:

* There is a big, public list of trusted friends. **These friends know how to talk to each other in private**
* You send a message to one of these trusted friends (call him Friend1) that contains a key.
* You send a second message in a locked box. The box can only be opened using the key you gave to Friend1, preventing others from seeing the message. The message tells Friend1 to forward all new messages to a second friend, Friend2. So we have You - >  Friend1 - >  Friend2
* You send a third message to Friend1. The locked box contains a new key. This key is forwarded to Friend2. **Friend2 has no way of knowing that you are the original sender**
* You send a fourth message to Friend1. This message is kind of weird; the locked box contains a *second locked box* which Friend1 cannot open. **Friend1 will no longer have any idea what you are sending**. He forwards this box to Friend2.
* Friend2 opens the box with his key and sees a message. This message tells him to forward all new messages to _URL_0_. Now we have You - >  Friend1 - >  Friend2 - >  CP

Note: This *layering* of boxes is where Tor gets its onion logo

Ok, so this is how we pull everything together:

* We have a request for Cat Photos that we do not want to be linked to us in any way
* Put our request for Cat Photos in box2. Box2 can only be opened by Friend2
* Put box2 in box1. Box1 can only be opened by Friend1
* Send box1 to Friend1. Friend1 opens it to find box2. **Friend1 knows that you are talking to Friend2** but **has no idea what you two are talking about** because he can't open box2. 
* Friend1 sends box2 to Friend2. Friend2 finds the request for Cat Photos. **Friend2 knows the request is for Cat Photos** but **has no idea who made the request** because he only sees it coming from Friend1
* Friend2 gets the Cat Photos and then sends them back to Friend1 **in a locked box using key2**.
* Friend1 sees the box but cannot open it. Friend1 sends the box to you in a second locked box using key1.
* You receive the box in a box. You have both key1 and key2 so you can open both of them and look at your Cat Photos.

Success! Friend1 has no idea what you wanted, Friend2 has no idea who you are, you have your Cat Photos, and the government thinks Friend2 is the one looking at the photos.

This chain can **grow to any length** and the only way that an outside observer (e.g. The Government) can determine it was you asking for the Cat Photos is if they manage to convince every trusted friend in your chain to give up their communication logs.

Question: - Can things like light waves or radio waves become radioactive?
Answer: Light and radio waves are both kinds of radiation. Specifically, they are both non-ionizing EM radiation. What "non-ionizing" means is basically that they won't come barging in and jack up your DNA. X-rays and gamma rays on the other hand are ionizing EM radiation, and definitely will smack your DNA upside its head.

So no, sending a radio signal from an irradiated area won't change it into dangerous ionizing radiation, because that's just not how the EM spectrum works.

Sending radio waves from a spaceship travelling very, *very* fast could make your radio a weapon, but at that point your ship is already a doomsday device so it isn't a big deal.

Question: What changed that allowed SpaceX to go from crashing rockets on barges to a 3 for 3 success rate?
Answer: Every crash is a learning opportunity.

They weren't crashing because they didn't know WTF. There's a ton of very complicated stuff to work out to land a rocket, and getting it even a tiny bit wrong usually results in an explosion. Rockets don't really do rough landings. It's either perfect, or kaboom.

So every time they crashed one, they tweaked the next one a little, until eventually they found the winning setup.

Question: Why can't fresh water fish survive in salt water, and vice versa?
Answer: Many fish can, and do.  Salmon, for example, make babies in fresh water.  The babies swim out to sea and grow up and get big and strong, and then they come back to fresh water and make more babies.  They have this ability because over millions of years, they were able to have more babies in freshwater than saltwater.  That is, they evolved to take advantage of reproduction in a freshwater environment.  The fish that can't do this made babies just in the ocean or just in freshwater, and so never had pressure to evolve to be able to tolerate both environments.

A fish's body wants to have an amount of salt inside it somewhere in between the ocean and a river.  The way both kinds of fish's bodies do this is called *osmoregulation*.  So a freshwater fish will get its salt from its food, and it makes its pee super watery, or diluted, so there is more salt inside than in the water.  A saltwater fish gets too much salt just from living in the ocean, so it makes its pee super salty, or concentrated, so its body is less salty than the water.  Most saltwater fish can't live in freshwater because they only knows how to make their  pee concentrated, so they'll lose all its salt.   Most freshwater fish can't live in saltwater because they only know how to make their pee more dilute, so they'll get too much salt.

Question: Why is there ice in the mens urinals
Answer: Ice cools the urine which reduces odor.  Ice also melts, which produces water and flushed the urinal.  Much more popular back in the days before auto-flush systems.

Question: What is a "housing bubble" and why did it crash a few years ago?
Answer: A housing bubble is when the price of homes in a market rises unsustainably. Banks started loaning money to people who realistically weren't going to be able to pay the mortgages back. Too many of them failed to pay their mortgages, and were foreclosed on, and it crashed the market. This problem was exacerbated, by the fact that many of these mortgages were bundled together, and sold on the market. It nearly caused a depression in the us.

Question: How do other animals cut their nails in nature? Do they even have to? Also, how did humans cut their nails in the past?
Answer: Usually just using them makes them eroded and they are as long as you need them. In nature, animals and humans use their nails for lots of things, and there is where they are "cut": every time they are used, they are a little bit shorter, making up for their growth. If they grow too much, they can be scratched against something to make them shorter, that's all it needs.

Question: EL5 Why we have a two party system.
Answer: I have a beautiful youtube video just for you! 

_URL_0_

Question: why do people with accents lose their accents when singing?
Answer: Because when they sing, they are consciously controlling their voice and producing a particular phonetic effect. Like you would if you're imitating birdsong. They are in very good control of their voice, and can produce specific desired sounds rather than speaking/singing in their natural accent.

Question: In movies that take place during 18th, 19th, and early 20th centuries in America, characters are often depicted as speaking with an English accent. When did American born citizens actually shed the English accent and adopt geographically identifying accents like in the north east and south?
Answer: Each area of america was settled by different ethnic groups.  These ethnic groups shaped the way English sounded in a given region.  The southern accent is actually closest to what the old English settlers would have spoken.

Question: Why we still label circuits based upon "conventional" current when we know that current actually flows in the opposite direction?
Answer: Pretty much, everything was defined before the discovery of, say the electron. Scientists, being positively minded and optimistic, decided it would probably be the positive charge moving around. Note also how stuff like Capacitance is measured in Farads, which is a huge unit and you usually use micro or nano farads because the SI standards are way off. Same with Coulombs. It was defined before that notion of electron charge. So, like Farads, it is also really small.  (x10^-16)   
So yeah, it was just guess work that got well known to the point where it can't be changed, so everybody gets to deal with it.

Question: What's the fastest way to cool hot liquid? Is it faster to cool hot liquid by pouring it over a cup of ice or by pouring ice into the hot liquid?
Answer: So cooling is all about surface area. You want the hot liquid to be as exposed as possible to the thing its bleeding its heat into.

Whether you pour the ice or liquid in first is unimportant. What's important is the amount of the ice's surface that's exposed to the liquid. If the ice is in a single block, it will cool much more slowly than if it were crushed ice.

Question: How do tattoo's work?
Answer: The tattoo is a hollow needle that basically stabs you over and over really fast and drips colorful ink into the place it's stabbed you. It has to go deep to the dermis (below the epidermis) because that's the permanent part of your skin, you keep it for life. You're constantly shedding little bits of your epidermis, so if you put tattoos there, they'd be gone within weeks, months at the most. (Fun fact, most of the dust in your house is dead skin cells and the corpses, droppings, and eggs of the microscopic insects that feast on them!)

Question: How can I simply explain to my friend that two outcomes doesn't mean a 50% chance of one happening?
Answer: I would simply say that your odds of winning the lottery are not 50/50, even though there are 2 outcomes:  you either win, or you lose.

Question: Why do Stores and restaurants in US cities, often in lower income area, all have a very similar style?
Answer: In the US, there is not a strong tradition of going to the nearest store, rather than the one you think will serve you best. So stores are trying to draw in new customers who only pass by occasionally. Extremely bold and informative signage has proven to work.

Question: Why are there different sized stars? Once enough mass is gathered to commence fusion shouldn't additional gasses be blown away from the star?
Answer: The gas clouds that stars form from collapse into a disc shape pretty early on in the formation process.

The big-ish protostars blast most of their early heat of formation out in polar jets that never cross that disc, so the incoming matter doesn't meet the outflowing energy until the star is well formed.

It takes some time for heat from fusion in the core to make it to the surface so there's an additional brief lag period between when the star "ignites" and when the stellar wind finally stops the star from gathering any more gas.

Supermassive stars are rare and their formation is not well understood.  We're not sure if the real monsters formed through accretion like the others, are products of multi-star collisions, or some other exotic process.

Question: Why do online job application systems force me to attach my resume and then also fill out their own resume system?
Answer: The parts you have to fill in will be run through their HR system, which can make a preselection. With how many people apply to some jobs, there simply is no time for them to check out all resumes, so they have to select them some way.

Once you are through the preselection, your actual resume makes it onto the desk of whoever is tasked to further select which candidates to call / invite for an interview. The reason why they make you attach the resume already is because that works the most efficient for them. They immediately have the resumes of the people who are interesting enough rather than having to chase them down for one. Remember, unless you have really specific in demand skills, you are simply not worth enough to the company that they want to go through the circus of emailing you, requesting your resume etc etc.

Question: If cold humid air is more cold than dry air, but hot humid air is hotter than a dry heat, what is the tipping point?
Answer: A person's perception of temperature is a bit complicated by several factors.

Except for extreme heat, your temperature is going to be lower than the air temperature, so it is a matter of how much energy it takes to warm the air up and cool you off. At low humidity, the air requires very little energy to change temperature, so it takes very little heat away from you on its own. At high humidity, it takes more energy, so it is able to take heat away from you more quickly.

Another thing which affects temperature is the rate of evaporation from your skin. With higher humidity, the moisture on your skin (e.g. sweat) evaporates more slowly, reducing the rate at which heat is removed from your body.

These two factors are going to interact. At low temperatures, higher humidity means you are retainng more of your body heat, but the air is able to take more energy away from you. You will really feel it as you get to within a few degrees of freezing.

At 50-60 degrees farenheit, the air is not taking as much heat from you, so you start feeling the effect of retaining more heat due to less evaporation.

At higher temperatures, the air takes very little heat from you or is actually adding heat, so high humidity means that you can't rely on evaporation to cool you off. This can kill people.

Question: Why do so many people hate Piers Morgan?
Answer: I don't watch his show, so I don't have any strong feelings about him.  From what I have heard from other people, there are two major complaints:

1) Back when he was in the UK, he had a reputation for publishing inaccurate, sensationalist content as news.

2) On his show in the US, he is viewed as arrogant and condescending to guests.

Question: Traditionally, Where does the responsibilities of the CIA and Pentagon begin and End in relation to each other?
Answer: Accountability and Authority. 

CIA is responsible for Intelligence abroad (FBI handles this within US borders), as well as clandestine operations. 

The Military is a large scale force that requires Congressional oversight and is expected to follow strict protocols such as the UCMJ and things like the Geneva Convention. 

Whereas a CIA operative can infiltrate and conduct operations in secret in foreign countries we are not at war with, the Military can not. 

A good example of this was the operation to kill Osama Bin Laden, since we were not at war with Pakistan, technically, Military units like the SEALs were not allowed to engage in operations in Pakistan, which is why the operation was a joint one with the CIA and Military. (to understand why the Military can not conduct operations in foreign countries, just look at Pakistan's response after they found out about the Op).

Since the "War on Terror" began, the lines between the two have become a bit blurry at times. The other example is the Drone attacks....if the CIA conducts them, they do not need to answer to the Pentagon or Military intelligence, nor do they need to report to Congress to justify their actions (they can claim information is classified, for example). Whereas if the Military were to conduct Drone Strikes (which they should), then they would be held more accountable, and the reasoning behind a strike would need to be run through a chain of command, and the Generals in charge could be summoned to testify before Congress if need be.

Question: I notice a marked difference between my ability to think and word things when I use double spacing as opposed to single spacing when writing, say, a paper for a project. Is there a particular reason for this at all?
Answer: Probably related to your expectations about how your double-spaced writing will be evaluated (as different than single-spaced).
  
Guessing you expect the double-spaced content will be more thoroughly reviewed, not just ideas, but sentence structure and individual words. 

Double spacing provides more room for comments. Almost puts a spotlight on everything you write.

You, are now on your best behaviour.

Question: Since there is no "air" in space, what do spacecraft thrusters push against?
Answer: Thrusters, rockets, engines, etc push against the spacecraft, not the air. The force of the material being expelled creates an equal and opposite reaction on the spacecraft.

Question: How does Apple own the Beatles?
Answer: [The Beatles sold the rights to their catalog of music back in the 1960s.](_URL_1_) It's been owned by many people, most famously by Michael Jackson, who made almost as much money on Beatles royalties as on his own music.

I don't know if Apple Computer has any ownership in Beatles music, but you might be confused by [Apple Records](_URL_2_). Long before Steve Jobs was in business, The Beatles named their record company Apple. There was actually [a lawsuit between the computer company and the record label, because of conflicting trademarks.](_URL_0_)

Question: How does the software "Tor" work?
Answer: Here is a little diagram to start off with:
_URL_0_

The (very!) basic gist of it: You connect to the network which proceeds your request along a randomized route through network-relays using data encryption, before it transmits your request to the final destination. Backtracking is extremely hard, since the randomizing algorithms obscure the path taken and all data in the network is only proceeded encrypted.

Question: Why is it often recommended to fully charge electronics before using them for the first time?
Answer: Imagine that your battery is an opaque water bottle. 

When you first get it, it has some amount of water in it.  You have no idea how much water is actually in it because you can't see the water.  It has a weight to it but that doesn't tell you anything because you have no reference.  For all you know, it could be empty or it could be full.

The person who sold you the water bottle tells you to fill it up until you can't fill it up anymore.  You do so.  You know now it is completely full of water.  You can now weigh it and get a reference point.  

When the water bottle weighs this much, it is full.  When the water battle weighs half as much, it is half-full.  

Basically, without that initial reference charge your battery could report 100% charge when it is actually only 25% full.

Question: Why are symptoms more potent in the morning and evening when you are sick?
Answer: In the morning it's usually because you've been dehydrated due to sleep or if symptoms just arose, you aren't used to it. In the evening, because of being tired and talking all day, you get worn out. Just think of going to a sporting event all night yelling then getting home and having a sore throat. Wear and tear of everyday things just exaggerates your ailment.

Question: How did the alpine tunnel makers ensure that when they bored through the mountains they came out where they intended or met the other diggers coming from the other side before the days of GPS?
Answer: Not only from the days before GPS but GPS does not work inside tunnels so they still have the same problem. The way you do this today is that you use lasers to measure the distance and angles of the tunnel walls. You put down special reflectors into the walls of the tunnel and measures their position to the other reflectors very accurately. This way you can calculate the exact position of every single reflector. By measuring the angle and distance to different reflectors you know exactly where in the mountain you are and can direct the machines to drill in the direction you want.

Question: How to people find amber with preserved life inside?
Answer: It’s just random. They mine the amber and then upon examining it and cutting it up to sell, find what’s inside

Question: Why does 80 degree water feel so much colder than 80 degree air?
Answer: Water absorbs much more heat per volume. So water touching your skin aborbs more of your body's heat compared to air of the same temperature.

Question: Ugly power lines, poles, transformer cylinders and other mess of stuff cloud my neighborhood. But my well-off parents' neighborhood has not a single wire in site. How?
Answer: All those things can be run underground, but it can cost up to 10 times more than overhead systems. This cost means that they tend to only be put underground in regions where people are willing to pay that price, ie wealthy neighborhoods.

Question: Congratulations ELI5 on 300,000 subscribers! And thank you!
Answer: I enjoy seeing the questions people post. Sometimes, i feel like just replying "google it," but then i realize that a lot of times, even if you do google it, the answers you find require you to either know a lot about the topic to begin with, or are so buried that you may never find the answer you are looking for, so it helps to have someone just break it down simply.

Question: Why is it so hard to spot this "Planet Nine" when we can easily observe and photograph light years far off celestial bodies?
Answer: Well first of all, we can't easily observe and photograph most celestial bodies that are lightyears away.

The ones we can photograph tend to be either giant flaming balls of light, clouds full of giant flaming balls of light, or a collections of billions of giant flaming balls of light.

You might notice the recurring theme here: Light.

You don't get much of that on the edge of the solar system.

Question: How does paying for windows 10 work? What's their plan, im confused by the whole thing.
Answer: Microsoft wants everyone in their app selling environment more than they want to cling to the idea of home users paying to upgrade windows.  The app environment sells things like google play or the itunes thing.  Those environments are huge money makers

Question: What exactly happens if Russia is proven to have tampered with the voting process (ex: Brexit, US elections)?
Answer: The UK has mechanisms to force a new vote. So they could "revert" things fairly easily if the public decides to do that. 

The US does not have such a mechanism. They could impeach Trump for it which would leave Pense being President. They could also theoretically impeach Pense as well since he was on the same ticket and if they choose to do that the Presidency would go to the Speaker of the House. 

That could also be considered an act of war and either nation, and by extension NATO could go to war over it. 

But it would most likely be lots of political "yelling" and then some sanctions that do basically nothing.

Question: What is it that specifically makes the new car smell and why is it the same in every car?
Answer: Offgassing plastics. There is some concern that plasticizers and solvents released from many industrial products, especially plastics, may be harmful to human health. All the car companies use the same types of plastics so thats why the smell is the same.

Question: Why is Netflix Throttling such a controversial issue?
Answer: It's when the ISP is hand picking what websites are fast or slow that really gets people. It's an incredible amount of power where companies that used to be just neutral pipes to turn into places that hand pick what websites can or can't exist. 

The fact that many of the largest ISPs are media companies and the sites they most often talk about throttling are media companies makes it even more double sketchy. A cable company would be very interested in making video companies that make it so you don't need cable tv anymore not work anymore.

Question: Why did Chairman Mao kill so many people including teachers? What could he have been trying to accomplish?
Answer: He was trying to purge China of The Four Olds as these were seen to only further the exploitation of the classes. The Four Olds are old customs, old habits, old culture, and old ideas. 

A lot of teachers were executed publicly, monks were humiliated in the streets, a great number of Kung Fu masters took to the hills or left China altogether. These were all seen as part of the Old China that the Cultural Revolution was meant to be burning off.

Question: how can PPI (pixels per inch) be different across certain devices? Aren't inches and pixels a set size?
Answer: an Inch is a measuring unit. 

a Pixel is an object. It can be any size. 

A display's resolution describes how many pixels it has. 1080p means it has 1080 pixels on the short side. 

So, obviously, to fill a 42" 1080p TV and a 5" 1080p phone with the same number of pixels is going to require differently sized pixels.

Question: How will TTP copyright laws affect people in non-signing countries?
Answer: It would mean that any web service that operates in those countries would be subject to the new copyright terms. As a person using a web service that operates in one (or more) of those countries, you are also indirectly affected by the new copyright terms because presumably all the content made available though those websites will need to be in compliance with the new TPP copyright terms.

Web services that operate entirely outside the jurisdiction of TPP nations are not directly affected by the new copyright terms. However, if they have presence (e.g. offices, employees, server equipment, etc.) in countries like the US that are part of the TPP, then they are subject to all copyright laws enforced in those countries.

Note: TPP is not a law and it does not directly impose copyright laws. The TPP is basically an agreement between countries that obliges each signatory nation to ratify the agreement and create new laws (in their respective countries) that effectively accomplish the goals of the TPP agreement. The precise way in which those (e.g. copyright) laws are implemented may vary between nations.

Question: What is 'Trickle Down Economics' and why or why not is it bullshit?
Answer: Trickel-Down economics is the idea cutting taxes on the wealthy will lead to higher overall economic growth---more than enough not only to help the economy, but also to make up for any lost revenue to the government for the tax cut. 

When the idea originally came to prominence, top tax rates where extremely high, and the idea that reductions might be especially beneficial for the economy was highly plausible.  Most economists today, however, believe that even if there was a slight boost from these sorts of tax cuts when they were dropping tax rates from 80% to 30%, there is no special boost anymore.  This doesn't mean that there can't be any positive effects, just that it's no more (and maybe it's less) effective than cutting taxes elsewhere, or even raising taxes and spending the money you raise differently. 

Of course, it's not a fully settled issue, and your mileage may vary, as demonstrated by [this scandal](_URL_0_).

Question: What does the successful vote to allow the sale of people's browsing history mean for the average person and what is the scope of this?
Answer: It really doesn't mean much. The rules that this vote seeks to overturn haven't gone into effect yet. Everything will stay as it is. 

It's also important to add the the senate vote is what just happened. For it to mean anything at all the house must vote to approve it and then the president must sign it. That will likely happen which will result in the status quo being preserved

Question: why they call dark matter "matter"
Answer: Because as far as we can tell it is matter. It's just a special type of matter which doesn't interact at all with the electromagnetic force, so we can't directly see it.

**Edit:** Something I want to add, matter that doesn't interact much with EM isn't actually all the strange. For example, neutrinos interact very weakly with EM yet they have mass(There are billions of neutrinos from the Sun passing through your thumb every second). What's strange about dark matter is that cosmologists have been systematically going through all the possible candidates(like neutrinos) that we know of and showing that they can't explain the dark matter effects we see.

Question: With the attacks going on right now, why has France been the target for so many terrorist attacks?
Answer: They, like all the old European powers, had colonies in the lands that are now terrorism hot spots. They treated millions of people very badly.

Question: Does my way of doing this math problem make any sense?
Answer: All you did is multiply both sides by the denominator in the x fraction, and then rearrange terms a bit.

a/b = x/c

c * a/b = x

c * a * 1/b = x

c/b * a = x

Question: Why is destructive interference unnoticeable, say if you have two sources of light and you move them around?
Answer: The wavelength of light is smaller than the smallest thing a human eye can see, by far. So these effects are too fine in scale for us to see.

Question: why carbon monoxide is so poisonous to breathe when carbon dioxide is not.
Answer: Carbon monoxide binds very strongly to hemoglobin, the molecule that carries oxygen in your blood. When it does so, it stops hemoglobin from binding to oxygen, and limits your body's capacity to get oxygen in the process.

Carbon dioxide, which is almost completely non-reactive, doesn't do that.

Question: How do they turn old black and white photos into color photos?
Answer: Unless the negative is preserved, they literally just color it. Think of it as a coloring book. I've tried photo colorization, and while choosing correct colors isn't that hard, getting the blending to work out realistically is much harder. For video, when it's a single shot, you can use tracking software so you don't need to fully color every frame.

Question: What exactly does vigilante justice mean?
Answer: In the simplest terms, it means justice administered by individuals (or angry mobs), outside of the legal system.

It could be a single person "taking the law into their own hands" and attacking a person who committed a crime against them. It could also be a person cruising around trying to punish criminals in general (acting like a comic book hero), or it could be a group (spontaneously angry crowd, organized group, semi-organized lynch mob) who seizes a person or persons they consider to be guilty and administers the crowd's idea of justice upon them.

The key is that the legal system is being ignored and/or subverted.

There are usually only cons to the situation. The rule of law is important, not only to everyone's safety, but also in terms of being certain that justice is adequately served. Even if a person is factually guilty and "deserves" whatever the extra-legal vigilantes do to them, there are other considerations to take into account: for instance, if the accused intends to plead guilty to charges  &  cooperate with an investigation, a lynch mob rushing the indictment proceedings, dragging the guy outside, and hanging him from a lamp-post may ensure that other guilty parties are never brought to justice.

Question: Why can speakers be blown out? Couldn't manufacturers just prevent the volume controls from going that high?
Answer: Speakers don't affect volume.  They can support a maximum volume without blowing out.

If you connect speakers to an amplifier that boosts the volume you can blow out the speakers.  But they are made by different manufacturers.  The speaker company doesn't know you're plugging into to an 800W amplifier.  The amplifier doesn't know you're plugging into shitty speakers.  

Then there is also the audio source itself which can be sending a hotter signal than usual.

Question: How do gemologists tell lab-grown gems from natural gems when the crystal structure is the same?
Answer: Naturally formed gems are not perfect. 

They have atoms of other elements dispersed within their crystal structure. 

When a gem is grown in the lab, it is usually 100% pure. There are no imperfections, (or nearly none). So when a gemologist observes the crystal structure, and they see no impurities, it is almost certainly lab grown.

Question: Fire... does it push things or exert force?
Answer: Fire itself does not, no. However, fire heats up the air (and other fluids) around it which can increase the pressure that they exert. 

For example, have you ever seen ash from a newspaper (or something similar) floating out of a fire up into the air? It's not doing that because the fire is pushing it, but the air beneath it is heating up and starting to rise which pushes it up. Similar idea to when an aerosol can gets thrown in a fire: the fire heats up the air inside, which puts more force on the inside of the can until the can bursts.

Question: Why are religious texts open to interpretation if they are the word of god?
Answer: because they're arguably the word of an infallible being, but they've been written down by a man. I think the bible even recognizes this fact at one point, or it was just my religious education teacher that pointed it out.

Question: Why are newer smartphones so much easier to break than "old" ones?
Answer: The big change has been making the entirety of one side a fragile glass screen. 

The decision to make the bezels thin means that there is little space to absorb impacts without putting the forces onto that large, fragile glass panel. They try to make the phone strong instead, but the desire to make the phone as thin and light as possible compromises that as well.

Tough, modern phones do exist. My Motorola Defy has been dropped many times. It has a tough, rounded bezel that absorbs impacts.

Question: How did we discover Pluto? It's so little and our solar system is so huge.
Answer: Random chance.

We thought, incorrectly, that Neptune's orbit was being influenced by another body. We did some math based on that incorrect assumption and came up with some areas to look at. Then took thousands of long exposure photographs. At least two were taken of each small area of the sky on separate nights. Then Clyde Tombaugh sat at a [blink-comparator](_URL_0_) a device that quickly shows one photo then the other and looked for objects that moved. The eye detects motion or apparent motion very well but is not so good at sorting out small static objects. By flashing one photo then the other the object that moves in all the soup appears to flash and is easily distinguished from all the ones that don't. Tombaugh found an object near where the math based on the bad orbit of Neptune predicted one should be. We announced the discovery of a new planet, called it Pluto and quit looking.

Later we determined that Neptune's obit was not being perturbed. That Pluto was too small to have an effect anyway and in the 1990s we started looking for other bodies in Pluto's neighborhood in earnest and starting find lots of them. This time we used computer software to do the blink comparison for us.

Question: Is it actually possible for Korea to 'reunite'?
Answer: Yes, it is possible. Just as it was possible for East and West Germany to go back to being Germany. 

That doesn't mean it would be easy, however. There are a lot of practical problems with merging the two states.  Even if you assume that the North collapses and the South just takes control (rather than trying to create a new government from scratch) what happens to, say the political prisoners in the north? the regular prisoners? people who get money from the NK government to live on? Do the poorer people in the North automatically qualify for assistance programs from the south? can they join the military? and so on, and so on.

Question: Why does hearing a song lots make us dislike it?
Answer: I think you can relate this in a similar way to drugs. When you take a dose of drugs  or listen to pleasant music, your brain is simulated and releases signals that it is happy with whatever you consumed. However, over time the same stimulus will result in lower and lower stimulation in the brain, as it becomes used to that stimulus. This is why many drug users have to take increasingly high amounts of drugs to attain the same high. 

The more you listen to the same song, the less pleasure you will get from it. But unlike drugs, you can’t increase your “dosage” of music. You can’t listen to a song twice at the same time. So, over many listens, you eventually lose all pleasure you gain from listening to that song, and it becomes boring.

Question: if someone comes on your property without your permission and they slip or get attacked by a dog, can you be held liable if they sue?
Answer: That fully depends on the country/state that you live in. In some places you can be held accountable for any injury, in some you can be held accountable if there was injury due to your negligence (lack of maintenance, lack of warning sign, etc), and in some their trespassing negates all rights to sue you for any injury they get.

Question: Why is the US West Coast a desert
Answer: The west coast is nice and green, but then there are several mountain ranges. Air that is pushed over the mountains is cooled and forced to drop most of its water vapor, so it is much less moist. This means less rainfall beyond the mountains and more desert conditions.

Question: do antibiotics target individual infections and if so how?
Answer: Yes you get certain antibiotics for certain infections. When a cut on your foot gets infected you will get one set of antibiotics, and when you get a tooth infection you get another set. 




Also you can use antibiotics from your cut foot incident to help with your tooth infection. Antibiotics will help bring down your infection no matter what they were designed for. Why? That I really don't know but I have also heard many times it is not good for your body to take antibiotics for one infection when they were designed for another.

Question: Why are there poor Conservatives?
Answer: Don't you ever wonder why there are so many rich Liberals, too?

All this "what it means to be Conservative / Liberal" crap that you get poured into your head by the media and your school system and your party-liners is just a bunch of bullshit establishment lies.

"Poor" and "Rich" have nothing consequential to do with political leaning; the powerful (the politicians and executive businessmen) are rich, regardless of party, and the powerless rabble aren't, regardless of party.

The 2-party system is just a way to keep the rabble distracted so the powerful can get more powerful and more rich, at the expense of the rabble.

Anyone who tells you otherwise has an agenda.

Question: What happens to the body when you donate one of your kidneys? Does it become less able to filter stuff out of your body?
Answer: When you donate one kidney, or one kidney fails, the other will pick up the slack.

When functional, both kidneys are not operating at the fullest capacity.

Question: Why do Dutch people eat spaghetti with knife and fork, instead of spoon and fork?
Answer: American of partial Italian ancestry here, what would you even use the spoon for? why not just a fork?

Question: why does cleaning your ears cause gag reflex?
Answer: It does? 

If it actually does, I would say it’s because the ear, nose and throat are all connected.

Question: Why do browsers replace spaces in the URL with %20?
Answer: It's because URL's are split up and processed in such a way that there's no guarantee any space character(s) will be accurately preserved.  Instead, the space character is explicitly stated by %20.

Just as an example, loading _URL_0_ sends the following header to the _URL_1_ server:

``GET /r/explainlikeimfive HTTP/1.1``

The server uses spaces to split it up in to key/value pairs which can be processed:

Key|Value
:--|:-- 
Request Type|GET
Resource|/r/explainlikeimfive
Protocol|HTTP/1.1

If reddit changed it to ``/r/explain like im  five `` you'd send to the server ``GET /r/explain like im  five HTTP/1.1``.  

Splitting it up on spaces gives:

Key|Value
:--|:-- 
Request Type|GET
Resource|/r/explain
???? |like
???? |im
???? |five
????|HTTP/1.1

There were two spaces between 'im' and 'five' and a space on the end, but they got dropped when the url was split up.  Worse, the server has no idea what you want it to do.

To avoid this ambiguity, ``/r/explain%20like%20im%20%20five%20`` can be processed as a single string and contains every space the user entered.

Question: I have some questions regarding orphanages in 1980's-90's America for my novel. I have trouble finding answers online, some help?
Answer: There weren't that many orphanages in the US in the 1980s and 90s.  Orphanages were phased out by the 1950s and instead kids were sent into private homes for foster care, overseen by social services such as child protective services, where social workers monitored the children's environment with periodic checks. Day to day they were taken care of by a foster parent. There were some temporarily facilities that were residential treatment centers, plus group homes. These are much smaller, more temporarily places than the old-style orphanages (pre-1950), where a child might stay for years in a large dormitory-like environment. So if you want to set your novel in an orphanage in the 1980s-90s USA, it might be anachronistic. The kids in these situations would go to regular public schools just like kids who were not orphans. There were social workers in charge of the facilities but for the most part kids were in homes with foster parents and perhaps foster siblings, possibly several other foster kids. Also, most kids classed as "orphans" aren't parentless, nor were they parentless in the days of orphanages. They were without parents who could care for them for one reason or another. Could be that they had only one parent and that parent couldn't take care of them. Could be they had 2 parents but neither parent could take care of them. Like Marilyn Monroe, who grew up in an orphanage despite having parents. She was a bastard so her father didn't claim her, and her mother was both poor and mentally ill so couldn't care for her.

Question: The 4 basic assumptions in financial reporting
Answer: Economic Entity - The company is a separate legal entity from its owners with its own finances

Going Concern - The business is operating with no planned shutdown period.  In other words - it's going to keep operating

Monetary Unit - All reports are done in a single currency

Periodicity - These reports are generated on an established schedule (every year, every 3 months etc.)

Question: Why do humans/mammals bleed from the mouth after head/chest trauma? Why is this always the imminent death factor in movies?
Answer: Think of what the mouth connects to - your lungs, stomach, and the passageways to your nose and ears. Head/chest trauma can lead to bleeding into one of those areas, which is usually a sign things are going pretty wrong.

Question: Why does it take so long for a country to develop nuclear warheads/ weapons? E.g. Iran and N. Korea.
Answer: It depends on how many resources they want to put into it.

North Korea is a very poor country so they can't spare the same amount of resources that the US put into the manhattan project.

Additionally usually people who are developing nuclear weapons programs are doing it against the will of the wider international community so they are blocked from importing many materials that might speed up the process. For instance highly efficent centrafuges require something called maraging steel. However because of this it'd be almost impossible for someone like NK to import maraging steel from any other country.

So they have to re-invent the wheel and do it all with local assets.


Just an aside but there's little evidence Iran is actually making nuclear weapons.

Question: Why don't we pronounce the name of a country like the natives do?
Answer: We don't speak the same language they do! The English name is often simply different from the native name. The idea that things should be rendered precisely as in the language of origin is very modern. When people were more internationally oriented and less particular about the country they were from, it used to be the norm for names to be anglicized, especially if they have a direct English equivalent. For example, "Pyotr" is a Russian given name, but we always speak of "Peter the Great" in English, because "Pyotr" is just the Russian rendition of "Peter". It's the same name.

 "Germany" is an English term derived from the Latin regional name "Germania;" "Deutschland" is a term that originated in the German language. However, until a few centuries ago, "Dutch" was a term commonly used for Germans (derived from "Deutsch"), until it came to be exclusively associated with people from the Netherlands, who asserted a separate identity from the Germans.

Question: Why are we so worried about a plane that has gone missing? Couldn't it be assumed that it's in the ocean as no one on that flight has spoken out?
Answer: It's a fairly new plane and they have no idea why it went down. If it was a design flaw it could happen again. If they don't know what the design flaw is, how can we be sure that in the next planes we start building the same flaw isn't there? Or if it was the pilot's fault for whatever reason, knowing why and investigating how it happened can prevent it from happening again. Until they find the plane, every guess has just as much credibility as the next and nothing will change.

Question: The recent changes to US healthcare and the changes happening in the near future
Answer: **What happens under the Affordable Care Act:**

*if you already get health insurance through your job*: Your children can stay on your health plan until they turn 26. Other than that, nothing else changes.

*if you don't get insurance through your job*: You are required to have health insurance one way or another. No ifs, ands, or buts. If you're close to the poverty line, you can get on Medicaid. Otherwise, the government will give you money to buy health insurance.

The government is in the process of setting up a public health insurance markets for people to choose insurers, as well as regulations that prevent insurance companies from gouging you. Insurance companies will be required to offer one-price insurance (i.e., all people aged 50 have to be offered the same price) and cannot impose lifetime coverage limits or consider pre-existing conditions.

*if you're a senior citizen and already on Medicare*: Nothing changes.

*if you're already on Medicaid*: Nothing changes.

Question: Why does rain make the internet slow?
Answer: Depends on type of connection the wifi uses, if it is through cable to wifi then the signal will be okay, if the wifi is connected through antenna the connection will get worse because the rain is blocking the signal from travelling from the signal emmiter which causes data loss along the way, so the data needs to be sent again.

Question: Why are "normal" bodily functions we all do such taboo topics or exceedingly gross when it's someone else's?
Answer: It happened through evolution. A lot of germs or viruses can be transmitted through poop or blood or snot and many other things. If they are your own, you do not run much risk since you already have those germs/viruses within you. But from someone else's: that's like playing the lottery.

I say it happened through evolution because people who were grossed out by someone else's bodily fluids had less chances of being infected in the rare case these communicated diseases. With time the people who were grossed out had more chances of survival than those who didn't and this became a somewhat common human trait.

Now there's the special case of a SO. There again natural selection made you consider your SO's bodily fluids almost as safe as your own, otherwise we would never dare to reproduce. Sexual attraction will trump being grossed out.

Question: The DNA being patented case in the USA.
Answer: A patent is a license from the government that says that no one can use your invention without your permission. You are allowed to make people pay you for the permission.  If they don't want to pay, you can ask a judge to make them pay.

To get a patent, you have to show 1) that you invented something useful, and 2) that it didn't exist before you invented it.

The whole debate surrounding the recent decision concerning the BRCA gene patent was over point 2).

Obviously the gene existed before the scientists at Myriad found that it was an important gene in breast cancer, so they can't have invented the gene, and they shouldn't get a patent on the gene, nor make people pay for permission to use or study the gene.

However... the gene as found in the human body is not "useful", in the sense that unless you do something else to it you can't use it for a particular purpose other than it's natural purpose.  Just like you can't use a finger bone for anything else other than to be a bone in your finger.

That is... unless you take the gene out of its natural context and make it useful for something that it doesn't naturally do, such as detect breast cancer.

So, the judges were asked to decide if taking the BRCA gene out of its natural context (the technical term is "isolating" it) and if using this "isolated" gene to detect breast cancer was an invention or if it was simply an "observation".

The judges decided that the "isolated' gene was not a natural thing, in the same way that taking a finger bone, and adding a few "bells and whistles" to it is also not natural.  So the scientists at Myriad were judged to to have invented something (a way of detecting risk for breast cancer), using somthing that did not naturally occur (the isolated gene).

Note that this judgement has absolutely no impact on anyone using the gene for either its natural purpose or for any purpose other than detecting risk for breast cancer.

Question: What specifics are there when war is declared? Is there a start date? Is there a specific region that is designate as warzone, and are there boundaries? I know modern warfare is a little more complex than this.
Answer: It has always been quite nebulous and needs to be evaluated on a case-by-case basis.

As a modern example, the Iran-Iraq War started with a downgrade of diplomatic relations and persecution/deportation of civilians of the opposing country. This was followed by small skirmishes in disputed territory, then a full-scale invasion. Both countries started mobilizing their armies after the diplomatic breakdown, but the gap between that and the Iraqi invasion was about 6 months from March-September 1980. If you only count full invasion as "war", then it started on 22 September, 1980.

A modern counterexample is the US invading Panama in 1989, which despite including a proper invasion isn't usually considered a "war". The US deposed the leader and dissolved the country's military, installing an opposition leader. We have a clear date of invasion, but it's unclear if this actually qualifies as a war.

Sometimes a government will declare war, which makes things a little more tidy, but doing so can have legal consequences in a country. The US hasn't officially declared war since WW2, despite various invasions of other countries over the years that we still commonly recognize as wars (Korea, Vietnam, Iraq, Afghanistan, Iraq again). If you are a defending country, a declaration of war isn't necessarily that meaningful in the face of defending yourself.

As for what counts as a "warzone", that's a little unclear as well. Generally, a warzone is "wherever the killing is happening". When the US invaded Afghanistan, the mainland US was definitely not a warzone, but all of Afghanistan was considered a warzone. From a civilian perspective, the important factor is how safe your area is. A warzone is any area where you have a significant likely hood of getting killed by military action, with the meaning of "significant" really being important to the individual. For a military, a Warzone is anywhere where they can conduct operations with an actively hostile enemy. Again, all of this varies case-by-case.

A given government might put out travel advisories describing the safety of traveling to particular areas. That government may designate an area unsafe due to war or violence, essentially defining a "warzone", but this definition is specific to the safety of the civilians of that country.

Question: Why are some meats edible undercooked/raw?
Answer: You can get [Trichinella spiralis](_URL_0_) from undercooked pork, it can cause intense muscular pain, difficulty breathing, weakening of pulse and blood pressure, heart damage, and various nervous disorders. Not something you want.

Question: pizza gate
Answer: A group of people have read through some of the various hacked emails from the Clintons, their friends, and their foundation.

They believe that they have located in those emails evidence of a ring of pedophiles, led by the Clintons, that operate primarily out of a pizzeria in Washington, DC.  The evidence of all of this is sketchy, at best.  The largest 'evidence' comes from HRC's campaign chair, John Podesta.  When his email was hacked, it became clear that he was a big fan of Italian food in general and pizza specifically.  He often talked about getting pizza, enjoying pizza, and what pizza places to go to.  

Somehow, the Internet decided that "pizza" was code for "child rape", since apparently no one in the world likes pizza.  So now anything in there discussing pizza is actually discussing child rape, and pizza parlors are now child rape centers.

Question: The controversy with Gabby Douglas' hair.
Answer: It's not pulled back tight enough, it looks like it was haphazardly thrown together. It's not really a controversy so much as people just paying too much attention to a women's looks yet again. :\ It's something people with more experience with black hair (read: black people, esp. black women and mothers) and are thus those that are calling it out more readily.

Question: what does polishing shoes actually do?
Answer: There are leather conditioners to keep leather hydrated so it doesn't crack and peal,
Then you can buff a shoe with special brushes or swab type implements (or a clean rag) to remove light scratches or marks and go over it with a polish that matches the tone of the shoe to restore the richness of color and even it out where it's become mottled from stains or fading 
It's important to gently clean the surface of the shoe to remove substances that could damage the leather, like salts and other things before applying polishes.
A good leather cleaning ritual can extend the life of the garment and keep it in good condition longer

Question: How do artillery spotting work?
Answer: They're called Forward Observers, 13Fs, FISTERs. 

Using a compass, map, protractor, lasers - you can determine the direction and distance to a target, from the Forward Observer's position. Now this is important, the FO has to relay his exact position, since all corrections to the artillery fire will be made from his sight position. 

In essence, if I'm telling the guns "right 30 meters" to me, the rounds will go right 30 meters. But, if the gun line (the actual cannons) say, is 12 miles to my north, they would actually be firing south,  "longer" or further from their position, while simultaneously it going to my right. 

For this, the Forward Observers call the Fire Directional Center. They calculate what "right 30 meters" means for the gun line, and they inform the FO what types of rounds are available, how many rounds will be fired, and when exactly they will impact the ground. This is called "splash" exactly 5 seconds after "splash" is called, the round impacts the ground. This is done so that the Observer does not have to keep exposing himself by looking at the target continuously. 

The observer keeps making corrections "add" brings the round farther away from him. "Drop" brings the round closer to him. "Right" is right, "Left" is left. "Up" means the altitude will be increased, and "down' altitude decreased. Altitude is important when calling in illumination rounds that start to burn high up in the sky, illuminating the enemy. With "continuous illumination" one cannon can fire the illumination, and the other cannon can fire the "HE" impact rounds, with practically daylight. It is also used with artillery rounds that impact over ground troops, or to infiltrate trenches, or place mines using cannons. 

FOs can also laser the target, giving them an exact grid coordinate, altitude of target and the direction. 

Think of the Artillery as a Man;
Arms: Gun line, brawn
Brain: FDC, figures out all the calculations
Eyes: FOs, get close enough to the target to blow it to smithereens. 

FOs are also cross-trained at a certain level as JFOs (Joint Fires Observers) to help call in Close Air Support (CAS) and helicopter strikes (Close Combat Aircraft, CCA). 

It's a fun job I did for 7 years, but I now wish I had become an Air Force JTAC, those guys are awesome.

Question: why does the show "Power Rangers" still have monsters that look like rubber costumes?
Answer: Young children are not especially critical of shitty special effects.

Question: Why are certain types of plastic non-recyclable?
Answer: In addition to economics, there are two main types of polymers. [Thermosets](_URL_1_) are irreversibly cured: once they are formed they can't be re-formed. While these can't be recycled into new plastics, they may be re-purposed for other uses once their primary useful lifespan ends. What makes these materials unable to be re-used is that the polymer chains have a high degree of cross-linking. That is, instead of a jumble of individual chains (like a bowl of spaghetti) the chains are bonded to each other to varying degrees (like net or fence). 

[Thermoplastics](_URL_0_), on the other hand, generally lack this cross-linking which makes them easier to re-work and form into new plastics.

Question: why is water able to evaporated below the boiling point? I was always taught 212F (100C) was when water could turn into a gas.
Answer: First let me say, if you have the time, ignore my answer and read the first chapter of the feynman lectures here: _URL_0_ Absolutely ELI5, great stuff.

Here's my explanation.

People found that liquid water is made of a huge number of tiny molecules. These attract and repel each other (too close and they repel, too far and they break, right in the middle, and they balance ... kind of like weak springs), and they're constantly moving and jiggling about.

Evaporation is when the molecules on the surface, after some kick of energy from collisions below, break the last of their springs and bounce off into the air and just leave. And more and more leave like this, until poof, almost all are gone. So while temperature would affect it, it is not necessary for the water to be at boiling point. And you can imagine that different liquids evaporate at different rates based on the strength of those springy bonds.

And temperature is nothing but the kinetic energy of these molecules. The higher the temperature, the more they kick around. 

Boiling is only a little bit different. It's not related to the water molecules on the SURFACE, but all around. Because you heated the water to such a high temperature that it just violently ejects water molecules all over the place, even inside (gas bubbles do form deep inside when you boil some water, right? Does that happen in evaporation? Nope.). And it's very easy for water to escape in the form of vapour.

Hope this cleared things up for you.

Question: Why do we get headaches?
Answer: There are many things that factor into headaches, and there are different types of them. Dehydration can be a contributing factor. The most common type of headache is a "tension" headache. These are muscular in nature,( yes we have muscles in our faces/scalp) several muscles also attach to the back of our head (neck and back muscles) these are responsible for actions such as turning our head side to side, flexion and extension of the neck, raising our shoulders, etc. When these muscles become very tense, they can result in tension headache. Often stress is involved.

Source; I have been a licensed massage therapist since 2009, and have relieved many headaches by working on the muscles of the neck.

Question: How does patient zero get a sexually transmitted disease?
Answer: A disease evolves from something else. Usually that is from an other disease on the same animal (then this is easy - it is just there) or on a different animal.

If it is evolving on a different animal, that diesease suddenly developt capabilities to infect humans (due to mutation and similar mechanisms) Now it has to **get to a human** (patient zero). With "normal" diseases that happens the same way it would happen with between humans: close contact, sneezes, fecs (accidentially getting eaten/on hands/small wounds- > blood), raw eating raw flesh (parasites), other body fluids ... 

So, one way would be sex between different species. Animals do that. Humans do that, too. Quite often. Probably more often than you think. [Wiki-link](_URL_0_) - the relevant numbers were 5% (men) and 2% (women) - that declined, probably, but in remote areas it should be similar.

That is not the only way - many sexually transmitted diseases have secondary means of transmission. For example, HIV is transmitted by blood. It just happens that there are many small wounds while having sex. You can get HIV if you rub infected blood on your body (if there are wounds - which is rare). You could imagine that such diseases might start in a cow and then infect the butcher... 

Also, there are people who stick thinks in their private area. These things might get dirty...

**TL;DR:** Spreading from animal to human: poor hygiene or bestiality(sex with animals - that happens. More often then you think). The virus/bacteria/parasite does not need sex, it just has to get to its target.


Diseases **start** by mutation or other genome altering mechanisms.
For easy understanding: The genome is the building plan of a bacteria/parasite/virus (the famous DNA (or RNA - basicially the same in the "universal" "language" - RNA can be read by every living thing; that's what most viruses use)). A mutation is a random change in a genome. Since these are random, in most (or almost all cases) the result is nonsense. More likely is a change due to some other mechanism: The genome in itself is not just a clear, finished plan - it has complex instructions, like, for example: cut out some part here/add some other apart (there are way more possible mechanisms; for example do some bacteria exchange parts of their genome with each other). These changes are more likely to be usefull. 

If the change works, and the result still "lives", the new virus/bacteria/parasite reproduces itself inside of its human/animal and hopes to get to the next host. Usually that means leaking out in some specific fashion.

A sexually transmitted diseases might be "born" when, for example, the change made it able to survive in/on the vagina/penis (these are not the best areas to live in: there is air, urine, other fluids and current trying to flush you out, there is no easy source of energy/things to eat ... but there is less immune system and it is still wet...). If it leakes out through the vagina/penis -  TADA! - it is now (additionally to what it was before) a sexually transmitted disease.

**TL;DR:** A new disease develops by some change in genome. If that changed version is working, it spreads inside the host (if it is better than the old disease it might even surpress the old one) and then hopes to get to a new one.

Question: Why does certain fast food give us diarrhea?
Answer: It doesn't, unless you're *very* unaccustomed to greasy food.

Food poisoning is always a possibility, but it's pretty rare with fast food, since the stores usually either don't handle raw meat at all (Taco Bell comes to mind) or raw meat goes directly from frozen to the grill.

Question: How floating point numbers are represented as bits. You know, mantissas and exponents and such.
Answer: A floating point number has a dot in it like this 11.31234124. If this were money that could be 11 dollars and 31 cents

How to express this in binary bits, 1's and 0's? 

First let's decide to limit the binary representation of our floating point number to 32 bits. Why? Because it turns out we won't need a lot more than that.

Let's make this easy on ourselves: let's decide that the floating point numbers start with 1 to 4 digits, then a dot, then 6 more digits after the dot. For example, 123.456789 Easy. That fits in 32 bits, everything is the same, great.

Wait, that's not good because what about 27122.8700 and 0.00000000438721109 ?  That dot can be anywhere. Those wont fit in our fixed width scheme.

Here's what we do instead: it turns out 27122.8700 is also 2.341233^12, and 0.00000000438721109 is 8.3124^-8

So to store floating point numbers in binary, we convert all floating point numbers into exponents where the mantissa part (the 2.341233 part) fits in our fixed width scheme, and we also need to store the exponent value (the little 12 up in the air) and the sign of the exponent next to it which requires just a few more bits from our 32bits. There's also going to be some rounding errors in this conversion process so we also store an "exponent bias" which is a correction factor on the rounding errors.

Question: Considering they are related to Wolves. When a Dog is playing fetch, what does it think it is doing?
Answer: It simulates hunting prey. That's why dogs like squeaky toys, they sound like injured animals.

Question: If I have to poo but hold it, when the sensation goes away (and it doesn't come back) what happens to my poo!? Does my body absorb some waste?
Answer: It's sits in your intestine, being compressed by the new shit piling up. If you hold it too long you'll get constipated.

Question: Why do we instinctively seem to hit machines / devices that aren't functioning properly? Where did this come from?
Answer: It's called "Percussive maintenance" and it's related to the old mechanical and analogue systems that used to drive machines where if they got stuck sometimes a sharp jolt to the machine could cause the stuck pieces to jump into their proper places.

Question: How can a drink (Monster / Coke / etc.) have zero calories?
Answer: Protein, Fat, Carbohydrate are all converted to energy and energy is measured in calories. Almost every drink, whether it be fruit juice or sodas contain a ton of sugar which is where all the calories come from. 

Drinks with 0 calories replace the sugar with sweeteners, most commonly aspartame. Research shows that sweeteners make your body crave sugar, which is kind of why they are not better for you than regular sodas.

Question: why is there not an app or website for voting?
Answer: It's a horrible idea.  A virus, a hack or a DDOS attack could destroy the integrity of the whole system.  Many people are against even using electronic voting machines because they leave no paper trail, doing it online is a no go.

...and it would be nearly impossible to keep it anonymous which is a *critical* part of the system.

Question: Why are campaign funds correlated with winning an election? Why don't people just vote for who is the best person for the country?
Answer: Because marketing is everything. If you don't know somebody exists, how do you vote for them?

Question: Why do those "pan-tilt" photos make things look like models?
Answer: I'll try and actually explain this as easily as possible.

The quickest reason for this miniature illusion is depth-of-field, which is the blurry background or foreground effect you see in photography when an object is in sharp focus.

Depth-of-field is usually not achieved in photographs that are taken in landscape or super wide because there is not an object close to the lens for the camera to focus on, and there is no reason for the background to be very blurry.

When we take a landscape shot, like the second image you provided, and make the statue in sharp focus, and blur the background and foreground, the illusion of it being miniature is created because that effect is achieved normally on objects where the camera is very close to the object in focus. This, combined with increasing the saturation of the image, makes it seem like these landscapes are miniature toy models.

Question: How can a car detect that a Windows has been broken and sound the alarm?
Answer: Most car alarms are vibration sensitive, which is why they go off when someone bumps into the car.

Because you will require a significant force to smash a window, the car will register the hit and sound the alarm.

Question: Why is chloroform not used as a sleeping medication?
Answer: Because chloroformed sleep is a sedated, unnatural state of unconsciousness. The compound depresses the central nervous system and too much can easily kill a person.

Question: who decided that vulgar language was vulgar?
Answer: This is a bit like asking who decided what is polite and what is kind and what is mean - they are bound to culture, context and they ebb and flow with social norms.  While we can talk about how and why words get put on lists that the MPAA uses in ratings, or that are OK or not OK on broadcast televition, it's nearly impossible to pinpoint the evolution of the meaning of a word, or the change in its interpretation within a culture.

Question: Film: what does a producer and executive producer do?
Answer: From Wikipedia: 

* Executive producer (EP) is one of the top positions in the making of a commercial entertainment product. Depending on the medium, the executive producer may be concerned with management accounting or with associated legal issues (like copyrights or royalties).[1] In films, the executive producer generally contributes to the film's budget and usually does not work on set, in contrast to most other producers.

* Film producers fill a variety of roles depending upon the type of producer.[1] Either employed by a production company or independent, producers plan and coordinate various aspects of film production, such as selecting script, coordinating writing, directing and editing, and arranging financing.[2] During the "discovery stage", the producer finds and acknowledges promising material.[3] Then, unless the film is supposed to be based on an original script, the producer has to find an appropriate screenwriter.[4]

So in short: the EP is overseeing the administrating (finance, legal, organisation) side, the P the entire creative aspects. Overlaps can happen.

Question: How does forcing car companies to sell through dealers "protect the consumer"?
Answer: It's from back in the days where trying to hold an out of state car company liable (e.g., if there were any problems with the car) was pretty much impossible for the average person. The dealer exists partially because in that era it was important to have somebody nearby to hold responsible for the car you bought.

Question: Why are modern day toys and electronics so flimsy compared to, say 15 years ago?
Answer: Consumers would rather pay less and buy devices more often. If there was more profit to be found by charging more and being durable, that's what you would see. 

The obsolescence curve for many technologies is also getting faster, so manufacturers can more safely assume their product will have a shorter life anyway.

Question: Imagine we wanted to nuke Russia at midnight tonight. What military movements would need to be made, how many people would have to sign off on it, etc?
Answer: The exact processes are kept pretty secret, but you'd be surprised how simple the process would be.

The President can order the strike. The Secretary of Defense confirms the identity of the President and passes the order down the chain to the leg of the triad that will be conducting the attack. 

We have three methods of nuclear strike capabilities, referred to as the nuclear triad. That would be ICBM's, Nuclear attack submarines, and nuclear bombers. Both the missiles and the subs have a range of about 8,000 miles, and will impact minutes after launch. They are always ready to launch, and we always have both options aimed and within striking distance of Russia.

If the order was given at 12:00 am, it wouldn't be unreasonable to think that we could strike Russia by 12:30 am, with multiple warheads if necessary.

Question: Why does time move at the speed it does?
Answer: How would you know the difference if it ran at any other speed? It would still be "normal" to you.

Question: Why are objects in the mirror closer than they appear?
Answer: Because the mirror is convex, it collects light from a larger field of view than a flat mirror would.  This is good at letting you see more road, at the expense of depth perception.

Question: What is the difference between Computer Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering and Electrical Engineering?
Answer: Computer Scientist here. (see bottom half of comment for a tl;dr as well as an ELI5-esque analogy)

Each of these majors will have significant overlap, but there will be some differences in the topical focus in the later years. It also varies from uni to uni, so I'm using the [University of Adelaide's](_URL_0_) curriculum as a reference point.

**Computer Science** focuses more on problem solving and taking advantage of the ways computers operate in terms of doing maths and manipulating structured information. So the focus of such a program would be the theory and design of algorithms and data structures. Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning and Modelling/Simulation falls under this topic.

**Computer Engineering** needs to broken down into two parts: Software Engineering and Computer Architecture.

**Software Engineering** is the *programming* side of Computer Science, where you actually go about writing a set of instructions (program) that a computer can interpret and execute. You will learn how to write big applications (including games and apps), dealing with databases and setting up networks here. Computer Security is also a growing part of Software Engineering teaching (things like encryption and password cracking would, however, be a topic more for Computer Science).

**Computer Architecture** puts emphasis on the design and effective utilisation of the computer components, such as the processor (CPU) and memory (RAM, CD/DVD, Hard Drives). While in theory an algorithm might take X number of operations to solve a problem, if you can design the hardware to run more *operations per seconds*, you can solve the same problem faster in physical time. This is where you could be creating better Graphics cards for VR software, or optimising how programs are run at the machine level such as multi-cores (parallel computing).

**Electrical Engineering** is physically building the circuits and motherboards using materials and having a deeper understanding of the physics and chemistry behind the computer (signals, conduction etc). They focus on turning hardware designs into reality. This affects the quality and reliability of the processor and signals. If you're an electrical engineer you can probably build custom electronic gadgets in your basement. 

**tl;dr**: 

* Computer Science focuses on *how* to solve a problem using maths and logic.

* Computer Engineering is divided into Software Engineering and Computer Architecture

* Software Engineering focuses on translating the abstract problem solving ideas in Computer Science into *step by step instructions* (software) a computer can execute.

* Computer Architecture is about designing the parts of the computer to run these programs faster or more efficiently.

* Electrical Engineering brings the computer to life by actually building and connecting up the different computer components.

* there is a lot of topic overlap across all majors.

**If it's still unclear, here's a cooking analogy. If the kitchen is a computer...**:

* Computer Science is ... coming up with the recipe for a new dish. You don't care which kitchen it's cooked in, but you will cook the dish at least once as a proof of concept.

* Software Engineering is ... writing down the recipe in a way others can read and follow to reproduce this dish. You just need to make sure the kitchen has the required tools for each step and you might cook the dish a couple of times to make sure the recipe is good.

* Computer Architecture is ... streamlining the cooking steps by turning on the oven first before starting to dice up the ingredients. You worry about the brands and capacity of each appliance in the kitchen, but end up not caring too much about what recipes are being cooked in this kitchen.

* Electrical Engineering is ... building or bringing into the kitchen a food processor so that ingredients dicing takes less time, and the diced bits will be much more nicely sized and shaped. You end up continuing to build more appliances that can do different cooking steps better/faster/in a neat way, but don't end up writing recipes or cooking the dish either. At some point you'll build a drone to help you monitor the baking while you go play Metal Gear Solid 5.

EDIT: As several other users have mentioned, Electrical Engineering covers more than computers. They are trained to work with anything that utilises the electromagnetic spectrum for functionality.

Question: what does more damage to the brain, a single KO blow or a flurry of smaller blows that result in a TKO?
Answer: With CTE studies and the NFL we are only just beginning to understand head trauma. It appears that its not a single concussion that is the cause but more of repetitive hits to the head. Dont be mistaken, though, both is not healthy... brain wise.

Question: Why are most television shows made to censor curse words and other possible offensive vocabulary, but are allowed to show the visual representation of things along the same lines as the omitted/edited speech?
Answer: because children who don't always necessarily understand whats going on under the covers it could go over their heads and they wont realize it was a rude scene but if its swearing or talking about sexual subjects  it the kids will definitely realize what the shows trying to convey.

Question: With the rise of automation in manufacturing and retail, what's next in the line of work for the people who will lost their jobs?
Answer: Many of those jobs will go away. But not all will, and other jobs will become necessary because of the change, and those will employ some of the others.

A number of workers and jobs will stay directly in transportation. Many transportation workers provide more service than just an act of driving, and because they're human they'll appeal to older or technology-uncertain citizens. Tour bus operators still guide and announce, and cabbies can have a conversation for a lonely senior. So they'll still have a percentage of the market because a robotic voice will just not be the same.

Others will move to support roles in the companies that build and run those transportation methods, working inside the factory or office rather than out in a truck somewhere. 

Others will move to the loading and unloading functions. The truck can drive itself so the middle part of a shipping company's work is covered, but it would be a very sophisticated and VERY expensive fully robotic system for its cargo to load and unload and store itself. That still needs a human to perform economically for most mid-sized companies. You might need less of them than you did of drivers, but the function will employ some ex-drivers. 

And the others will either find work elsewhere, or simply not find work by retiring early or not working.

Question: Why is it assumed to be liquid water on Mars as opposed to some other liquid.
Answer: It's not assumed, it's known. They used a spectrometer to analyse the chemical composition of the liquid in the channels.

Question: Who are the Oath Keepers and what do they do?
Answer: The Oathkeepers are a group that is supposed to consist of people who take an oath to defend the Constitution as part of their work---so soldiers, some other government workers, police, and the like. 

The organization asks its members to swear that they will never follow an unconstitutional order, meant as insurance against potentially tyrannical government action.  

They are considered to be a fairly conservative organization. Many accuse them of tending toward conspiracy theories and reactionary views.

Question: Why do storefronts have two sets of consecutive doors (usually automatic) at the entrance?
Answer: This design is particularly common in regions with cold climates (like Canada), even for relatively small stores, because having a single door system that opens directly to outside where there is heavy foot-traffic is simply not feasible in extreme weather conditions (e.g. outside temperatures of -20°C/-4°F).

The fact is, using a single door system in a heavy-traffic area with cold weather conditions would make it near impossible for the central heating system inside the store to maintain any form of climate control. At most, the store may be a few degrees warmer than outside and freezing cold air would constantly be flowing in at rates faster than the heating system would be able to replace.

Even just the fact that you have two doors and a space separating indoors from outdoors, can do wonders in terms of reducing the flow of air from outside to inside and vice versa (even when both doors are open). There is another component to the double-door system that you haven't mentioned though. 

What you may not realize is that, in the gap between the two doors, there are usually heavy duty fan blowers which typically reside above the door / on the ceiling and force air downwards. These fan blowers help form a virtual barrier between indoors and outdoors and prevent most of the cold air from rushing in from outside and prevent most of the warm air from escaping outside.

These double-door systems can also be used in reverse (for hotter climates) to keep cool air in and hot air outside.

Question: What difference does the layout of pistons in an engine make?
Answer: [this is more ELI9]
  
It helps to think of a car (or any other piston-engined machine) like a bicycle. Each piston moves up and down inside its cylinder, sort of like your legs do when pedaling your bicycle. Those pistons, just your legs, turn a crank that connects to the wheels and makes the car/bike move forward.
  
-
  
In a bicycle, the pedals are located opposite to each other. In other words, one pedal is at the top when the other is at the bottom (i.e. 180°/180° orientation). This makes it easier for you to pedal smoothly. If they were both at the top/bottom at the same time, or some other orientation (e.g. 90°/270°), it would be harder to pedal, and you would get a more “lumpy” feeling, similar to how it feels if you try to pedal with just one leg. You’d feel a very pronounced pulse on every rotation.
  
-
  
The same principles apply in a piston-engined car; It’s convenient to lay out pistons in pairs that oppose each other. That gives you smooth and efficient power delivery. Unlike bicycles though, an engine can easily have more than two pistons (i.e. legs), which can give you a lot more power. Most cars have between four and eight cylinders, and sometimes up to twelve (16 in _very_ rare cases). You could arrange them like a tandem bike, but that takes up a LOT of space. Instead, engines usually arranges the pistons all side by side, as if bicyclists were sitting shoulder-to-shoulder (like in a paddle boat). This is called an “inline” or “straight” arrangement e.g. an inline 6-cylinder or I-6 engine.
  
-
  
That works well for four cylinders. It doesn’t take up a lot of space, and you get a nice and even 90°-90°-90°-90° orientation along the crankshaft. It also works ok for five cylinders, but you can imagine how awkward it is to have a one-legged bicyclist on your team. It works REALLY well for six cylinders, with a 60°-60°-60°-60°-60°-60° orientation that is extraordinarily smooth because each pulse is so close to the next. Unfortunately, that requires a longer crankshaft, which takes up more space in the engine compartment and makes the hood longer (or wider, depending on which direction you orient the engine itself). 
  
-
  
To get around that problem, engines sometimes position the pistons across from each other instead of all in a line side by side. That modification takes up less space. Usually it’s in a “V” pattern (e.g. V6, V8, V12) with pairs of pistons arranged like 
`•’ around the crankshaft, and occasionally it’s an “H” pattern with pistons arranged like
—•— (most notably Subaru and Porsche). V’s are narrower but taller (good tradeoff between packaging efficiency and smoothness), whereas H’s are lower but wider (great for handling due to low center of gravity, but tend to have more vibration/harshness).
  
-
  
If this were an ELI12, we’d go into the differences between different piston and crankshaft angles in V- engines as well as their resulting harmonic/vibrations, why different companies chose certain layouts, and maybe even talk about a few crazy W-shaped engines.

Question: Why would Cinderella's shoe fall off if it fits perfectly?
Answer: Also, why wouldn't the shoe that fell off disappear with the rest of the outfit?

Question: Why does pee foam when it hits the ground outside.
Answer: Foamy urine can be caused by rapid urination. At times, when you delay going to the washroom, large amounts of urine gets collected in the bladder. Also, proteinuria or presence of significant amounts of protein in the urine, is one of the most common cause of foamy urine.

Question: How do 501c4 non-profits work and how do they threaten democracy?
Answer: They don't in and of themselves.  A 501c4 is a tax exempt organization that is allowed to use their money to influence public opinion which includes influencing elections.

So people can donate money to the 501c4 and that organization can then spend money to influence the election via TV ads, etc.  Some people feel that too much money is being put into these organizations by wealthy people and companies which means that certain people/viewpoints can afford to have more influence.

Question: What law guides the confessions in a R.Catholic confessional?Suppose a Catholic priest decides to give data on a penitent to the CIA?Or the FBI puts its staff in the seminary?
Answer: *Canon law*- the religious law of the Catholic Church (the Orthodox and Anglican churches have their own Canon law, too, I think)- provides for the immediate and automatic excommunication, which can only be lifted by the Pope, of any priest who reveals information obtained through confession.

In parallel to that, in the United States, there's a legal principle called *confessional privilege,* according to which priests (and officers of other religions with a role similar to priests) can't be forced to testify about what they know through confession or other private religious communications. The details of how this rule is applied are, unfortunately not ELI5 material: they're technical, and vary from state to state, because each state writes the Rules of Evidence for its own courts.

As for the last part of your question, *what if the government planted its own agent to pose as a priest,* well, all I can say is that there would be a spectacular legal fight about it that the government would almost certainly lose, either because of the First Amendment's establishment clause, or because of confessional privilege.

Question: base 10 numbering system
Answer: Base 10 is what we mostly use. We count individual things until there are ten of them, then we start counting how many sets of ten. 

Number 11 means (1) Set of ten with (1) individuals.

Number 42 means (4) sets of ten with (2) individuals.

Number 236 means (2) sets of hundred, (3) sets of ten, and (6) individuals. 

Base 4 is when we count individuals until there are four of them. If you have eleven things, you count the first four, then the second four, and you have 3 individuals left. So you write "23" to indicate (2) sets of four and (3) individuals. 

In base 4, with twenty-one things, you would write "111" to indicate (1) set of sixteen (four fours) (1) set of four and (1) individual. 

In the same way that you read a whole word, rather than individual letters, our brain wants to read an amount rather than the numerals used to indicate the amount.

Question: Why was a country as small as Germany so effective in WW2?
Answer: First of all Germany wasn't that small. It had the second largest population after Russia. This is especially so after it had absorbed Austria and parts of Czechoslovakia. 

Secondly, Germany was more industrialized than, say, Russia, with better infrastructure. To put it simply, it was wealthier and more developed. 

Third, the German military was more efficient, with better tactics and strategy. Other belligerents were poorly prepared for the mobile, dynamic warfare - they were still mostly thinking in terms of the static, immobile warfare of WWI. 

Lastly, Germany was able to fight its enemies one at a time rather than all at once. Poland fell almost immediately before anyone could do anything. Denmark and Norway also fell before the allies could adequately respond. Next, Germany invaded France and defeated them rather easily. This might be a bit surprising but neither the Soviets nor the US were still in the war. So Germany was able to conquer half of Europe without fighting Russia. When Germany invaded Russia, they simply caught them by surprise - the Red Army was very unprepared for the invasion and suffered horrible losses. It was only after the Germans failed to quickly knock out Russia that the war entered the attrition phase where the superior resources became a major factor.

Question: Why do the desktop computers (Dell Optiplex 9010) that I get on at my university run so fast and smooth while the 6-month-old netbook laptop I use runs so slowly?
Answer: A base model (which is what I assume your school has) Optiplex 9010 has much better specs than your average netbook. It's actually a very good computer for school/office work, I'm surprised your school has computers that nice. The processor that it has (i3-3220) was only released about six months ago and is very much "high-end" for non-computationally intensive applications.

So, like other people said, school computers have less bloatware, but you should also keep in mind that the school computers are just as old as your netbook, and a $700 desktop computer that was released at the same time as your netbook will *always* outperform the netbook.

edit: by the way, my school computers have pentium 4's, and I have to sit around for about ten minutes every time I need to do an intensive simulation, whereas your school computers would take about a minute to do the same thing, so you should feel pretty lucky

Question: What the Black-Scholes Model is and how it works.
Answer: The Black-Scholes formula works by assuming changes in the stock price are Gaussian distributed/normal distributed (actually they assume log normal but that's not hugely important) around 0. This means a few things:

* The expected value at any time in the future is the current value.

* The variability around 0 is something we can measure and account for.

* Taking those together we can make predictions about how likely certain outcomes are. Since we're interested in how likely we'll be able to cash in an option we can work out a 'fair' price, where the expected return is 0.

* It doesn't work and leads to massive blowouts, like [what happened to the company set up to operate using it.](_URL_1_)

For further reading on why these models are bad I recommend [The (Mis)behaviour of Markets](_URL_0_) or any of Taleb's books.

Question: How do they determine which song hits number 1?
Answer: It's the song with the most revenue in that week.

They look at sales online, downloads and in stores.

Question: How are portable powerbanks able to stuff 30,000mAh worth of energy into such a small body as compared to a 28A portable car battery?
Answer: You can't compare Lithium-polymere accumulators and the Lead-ones currently used in cars. In your car you need a battery that has no problems with pumping out high currents (your starter can require up to 100A for a start.) but you seldom need a long lasting battery since most of the time your engine should be running while in the car. (At least thats what cars were built for). The LiPo in your powerbank will give you 1-2 A max current but has a higher charge capacity in relation to size. Also your Lipo Powerbank supplies only 5 V Voltage and your car 12V. So at 12V 28Ah your car battery supplies 12V*28Ah=336Wh power, your Powerbank 5V*30Ah=150Wh. 
The car battery actually is supplying double the power of the powerbank.

Question: How does a 'child recovery' operation work?
Answer: It's basically a kidnapping.

Most countries agree to a certain set of protocols to handle international custody disputes but some countries don't. So with Lebanon, if you are Lebanese and get your kids there, there is little the other party can do.

So they hire some professional kidnappers to get the kid back.

More generally it can happen as a form of jurisdiction shopping. Normally the presumption is against disrupting the child's life further because a child isn't property. So if you want to jerk the system you take the child to a different country that places more emphasis against disrupting the child's life.

Question: how can the Hollywood studios acquire so many cars from the 20s - 70s period?
Answer: Car clubs. They baby their cars and would like nothing more than to have them on a movie set.

Question: Why do pain killers like tylenol or paracetamol make flu shots less effective?
Answer: Paracetamol works by stopping your body from making chemicals that naturally increase blood flow by dilating blood vessels. When you get a big bruise that's swollen, these drugs reduce the blood flow in that area, which helps reduce swelling.

If you've gotten a flu shot after taking a bunch of drugs like this, there's less blood flow at the site of the injection. The contents of the shot can't as easily get into your blood stream. We do the same thing if you need to get an injection of a numbing drug -- except we use another blood vessel constrictor, epinephrine, which stops the numbing drug from spreading farther than we want.

Question: What is the purpose of a five-star military rank?
Answer: Those ranks exist so that during wartime a single supreme commander can be appointed in a given operational area. This simplifies the chain of command by making it totally clear who is the senior officer. Remember that in a large operational setting (like a theater of war) there may be a large number of very senior flag (general/admiral) officers, potentially from multiple countries. Advancing one to a rank outside the normal system of progression makes him officially the most senior officer in the room, whether or not he has the highest peacetime rank or longest time in grade.

These positions aren't used in peacetime because they are unnecessary. In peacetime it is relatively rare for there to be serious confusion about chain of command, and if there is it can be worked out through the bureaucracy.

Question: What Is Visual Snow, Why Does It Exist  &  Does Every Human Have It?
Answer: It’s considered as a disease, or at least as a symptom of a disease (Lyme disease, for example), so no, everyone does not have it. It happens when a part of you cerebral cortex goes into overdrive, causing your ocular nerves to misinterpret information.
As for what it is, you can picture it as the visual noise on a broken TV.

Question: Why insulin is so important.
Answer: Insulin is a hormone which regulates sugar (glucose) levels in the bloodstream. With another hormone called glucagon, it keeps sugar levels in the bloodstream at a nearly constant level by breaking down or building up glycogen stored in the liver or sometimes fat or protein stored elsewhere.

Having glucose in the bloodstream is important because cells use it to generate energy. In a process called cellular respiration, they use the energy in the sugar to make a substance called ATP, which is used to preform many functions around the cell which require energy.

Insulin also functions in diabetes, which is probably what you were looking for, but I don't know very much about that.

Question: How does phantom limb syndrome work?
Answer: Your nervous system has been sending singles to your brain about how your limbs feel since before your were born. Right now, reach down and touch your pinky toe without looking at it. You can do this because your pinky toe is constantly sending signals to your brain with "status updates". 

Now if your pinky toe was suddenly cut off, there is still a long network that takes signals form your pinky toe to your brain. These pathways have been in constant use your entire life. They are use to sending signals to your brain, and your brain is use to 99/99% of the time receiving the exact same signals. So even though your toe is not there, sometimes you brain forgets it is not there. As odd as that sounds, it happens.

The normal feeling is that you have a toe there. The new feeling is no toe. Sometimes your brain forgets there is a new feeling.

Question: What happens to ants that a separated from their colony?
Answer: If the distance is close enough, they will be able to find their way by scattering to scout and tracking each other via the pheromones they lay on their path.

However, 5km might be a little long for them; I think after first scrambling away for a little while, some of them will get lost in their own trail and go around in circles till they die of starvation/exhaustion. If there are ants not originally from the same colony but of the same species in the vicinity, they may however assimilate themselves with the new ants and join their colony. Really sad, lost stragglers will just well, instinctually do what life heeds them to do, they will live alone and forage alone henceforth - their future is bleak and dim, and they will eventually die to the elements, but alas what else can they do when a human wills their separation from their brothers? Cruel, *cruel* life.

Question: Why is every planet spherical?
Answer: Planets form spheres because of the gravity emitted by their own mass. In space, any mass in space that exceeds about 6x10^20kg, or about 1/10,000 the mass of Earth, will compress itself into a sphere because its gravity pulls all of the mass in. Ideally, this leads to a shape where all the mass is equally distant to the center, or, a sphere.

Question: Why is plastic surgery for hands so ineffectve? We see many ageing celebrities with young-looking faces, but their hands always give away their true age. There's surely a market for it, so what's holding it back?
Answer: You ever notice how people with a lot of work done on their faces can't be very expressive because their faces don't move as much? Now imagine the mobility in your hands is that limited. People are willing to sacrifice some ability to move their faces (which everyone will see and notice) more than dexterity in their hands.

Question: What is Cop Baiting?
Answer: It's when you do something in order to provoke a cop into doing something.

The most common topical example would be to harass a cop with insults while filming them until they respond inappropriately. You then share the last half of the video where the cop acted inappropriately.

Question: How fast is the fastest computer?
Answer: The fastest computer in the world is the Sunway TaihuLight, which can do over 93,000,000,000,000,000 floating point calculations per second. This means that you'd need around 71,000 Xbox Ones working together to match it.

 >  Like say I wanted to download a movie, what kind of wait time am I looking at?

Downloading a movie is about the speed of the network connection, not the speed of the computer. The fastest computer in the world wouldn't download a movie any faster than a 10-year-old cellphone on an average internet connection.

Question: What are the pros  &  cons of using a neural network as opposed to a symbol system?
Answer: The obvious ones are that neural networks don't have transparency, in the sense that you can't easily tell what they are doing.  Typographical/symbolic systems are (generally) constructed by humans and have obvious, engineered structure.  That lets you figure out how logical structures work and how to construct inferences from deductive, relational philosophical structures.

Neural networks evolve quasi-randomly to represent the decisions, recognitions, and inference paths they take; and therefore networks that do more than make trivial inferences are generally impenetrable to easy human understanding.  That makes them hard to manipulate or engineer.  However, by observing them it is possible to abstract some idea of "natural types" -- what sorts of connections do naturally evolved systems tend to create, and what are the simplest paths to detailed comprehension?

Question: Why do most people enjoy potatoes but don't like other vegetables?
Answer: Though botanically classified as vegetables, potatoes are nutritionally classified as starchy foods that differ greatly in taste and texture from the traditional leafy green vegetables such as lettuce, spinach, and kayle.

Question: From where does Earth get energy to rotate around itself and revolve around the Sun?
Answer: Earth is falling towards the sun, for the same reason that you'd fall to the ground if you jumped - gravity!

Why doesn't it hit the sun though? Well, orbits are just when you move sideways fast enough to miss the object you're falling towards. That's we use the term free fall... in space, you're always falling, you just keep missing what you fall towards. It got that from when it was formed. And since there's no air to slow it down, it just keeps going.

Rotation is the same way. It started so long ago, but nothing had made it stop.

Orbits do eventually decay, though! And spins slow down to where the day and year are the same length. The Moon is already there, that's why the same side always faces us. No worries, it takes so long to happen that you don't need to worry about it in your life.

Question: What is RAID (Computer Terms) and how would I use it?
Answer: Like you're five:

Imagine you are storing a song on your computer, but instead of bits and bytes, there are little people in there that sing it back to you. *You don't want to lose your song* (singers quit all the time), and let's also pretend *you want it sung as fast as possible*. What do you do? You configure RAID.

* **RAID-0**: 2 or more people sing *alternate words* in the song. This is faster because they can breathe, turn the page, etc. while they're waiting for their next turn. If one of them quits, the song will be ruined forever, though. Hopefully you have a backup band!
* **RAID-1**: 2 or more people sing the song *at the same time*. If one of them quits, the song will still be sung because everyone else knows all the words, too. You can hire a new singer who will quickly learn the song from everyone else.
* **RAID-5**: 3 or more people sing alternate words, like RAID-0. But this time, *every word in the song has exactly one backup singer*. So it's faster *and* if one quits, someone else can jump in and cover the missing parts. It will take some time to get a new singer up to speed, though, and until the new singer is caught up, if you lose another one you will lose the song!

Replace all references to "singers/bands" and "words" with "hard drives" and "blocks of data", respectively, and you've got RAID. There are more types of RAID but in the past 30 years or so these have been the most popular types. Why, you might ask, doesn't everyone just do RAID 5? Well, singers cost money, and it slows them down just a bit to learn each other's lines.

**edit**: anytime someone explains RAID it's a rule you have to say that it is not a BACKUP, it's a way to ensure that your data has greater uptime and/or is faster. The backup band in RAID-0 should exist for all of your implementations, because if the first band's sheet music has a typo there's nothing you can do to fix it without a backup.

Question: What makes my nose "blocked"?
Answer: I just had surgery to fix this sort of thing 2 months ago. 

There are several reasons this could be happening, it is most commonly caused by inflammation of the sinuses called sinutitus. Sinutitus can be managed with a steroid nasal spray, and it may be caused by continuous and long lasting sinus infections. 

You could also have non-cancerous tumors in your nose called polyps. 

I had surgery recently where they cleared all my sinuses of infections and mucus (balloon-sinuplasty), and they also removed polyps from the inside of my nose. 

I couldn't understand why I had a hard time breathing for years, and i didn't know why blowing my nose never helped.

Long story short, i went to an ENT doctor, he assessed me and told me i needed surgery. I got surgery and 2 months later I literally can breath 100% better. I no longer snore, I no longer sleep with my mouth open, I can breath through both sides.

It's amazing, go see an ENT doctor and see what they say.

Question: Why do some people choose not to be organ donors?
Answer: Some are too lazy to register or check the box.

Some find it unacceptable due to their religion.

Some don't like contemplating the thought of their mortality.

Some don't like the thought of their body being separated and used for spare parts.

Question: Why is desertion a serious crime?
Answer: I would say that it is a *bit* obsolete, but originally, this is due to morale and discipline.

When your army is charged, you don't want them to flee.  When you are losing, you don't want them to run, or turn on you.

If someone is allowed to just disagree, and leave, discipline breaks down in the ranks as everyone realizes they can do the same thing.  War is hell.

Question: Anyone care to explain the axiom of choice? Thanks.
Answer: Let's say you want to know why the sky is blue. I could tell you that it's because the light from the sun is mostly blue and that the air makes things seem even more blue than they are and so on, and you would then ask "but why is the sunlight mostly blue?" and so on. Theoretically we could play this game forever, and in fact this is in a way what scientists are doing.

Mathematics is different. It is built the other way up: People come up with stuff that they think is "obviously true", like the sentence "it's possible to draw a straight line between any two points on a piece of paper" and then see what they can build by combining those simple sentences. These simplest sentences are called axioms - They are the ones for which, by definition, it makes no sense to ask "why?".

One of theses axioms is "the axiom of choice". It says that if I give you boxes with marbles in it, you could take one marble out of each box. Sounds like a no-brainer, right? That's why it's an axiom!

The thing is that very strange things happen when I give you infinitely many boxes. People have shown that if you assume it to be true, it follows that, theoretically, it is possible to chop up a ball into tiny pieces and glue them back together to make two balls - without adding anything! 

So some mathematicians reject it, some use it, and in the end it doesn't matter much for you because you don't have an infinite number of boxes. But it shows that things that seem to be completely clear can turn out to be much more difficult once you start looking closely.

EDIT: Cleared up thanks to DennyTom.

Question: How do lips still sync up in slow motion music videos?
Answer: One way to do this is to film people moving at normal speed, but the music they're lip syncing to is sped up.  That way when they slow the video down and play the song at normal speed, the song is playing normally, the lips still match as long as they sped it up the right amount in the original recording.

Question: How exactly does Morse Code work and how was it developed?
Answer: It was developed at a time where we could not transmit speech yet. A simple "current on or off" is easier to transmit. But how do you convert messages into "on/off" patterns? You invent a pattern for every letter. The sender sends them via pressing a key, and the receiver has a speaker making a sound when the key is pressed by the sender.

Examples:

* "e" is a single short signal.
* "t" is a single long signal
* "a" is a short signal, followed by a long signal
* "s" is short-short-short
* "o" is long-long-long

Between each letter you have to leave some break to make clear that a letter is done (otherwise "a" looks like "et"). "SOS" is "short-short-short----long-long-long-----short-short-short", for example.

The translation between letters and sequences is arbitrary. Samuel Morse used short sequences for frequent letters (like e and t) and longer sequences for less common letters (like Q: long-long-short-long), that makes transmissions faster.

Question: How do MOBA's and MOBA style games make so many different heroes and terrains and make the art style match?
Answer: The individual artists aren't working in a vacuum. They will reference the intended look and feel of the game as they work. Also there will generally be a lead designer or artist who instructs the other members of the team on overall style. 

Process varies from company to company, but typically each character will be drawn on paper as a concept first, and the concept will be refined until it is both good on its and own and appropriate for the look and feel of the game, then that concept will be used as a reference when making the 3D assets.

I haven't done game dev for a while now, but I currently work in advertising and it's sort of the same thing. Many artists and designers will work on an individual brand, but each brand has a brand book that defines things like the logo, what colors to use, tag lines, and such and the appropriate ways to use all the messages, etc so that everyone who works on the brand is consistent. Also all work will be reviewed by a brand manager and modified if it deviates from the desired feel of the brand.

Question: If en­ergy cannot be created or destroyed, what happens to the ener­gy and matter that gets sucked into black h­oles?
Answer: Black holes do not violate these conservation laws.

Think of a penny that you drop into an ocean. For any practical purposes, that penny is gone, but that doesn't mean it just disappeared, it's still somewhere deep in that ocean.

Black holes don't destroy energy, they just "trap" it, if that makes sense.

Question: Why does resetting a router sometimes increase connection?
Answer: A router is a small single purpose computer, with a CPU, and memory.  It runs a simple operating system, called "firmware".

This little computer only helps you talk to the internet.  It gets information from the internet, and passes it to your PC, laptop, or Playstation.  Then it takes information from your PC or Playstation, and passes it back out to the internet.

Like any computer, it can get overloaded, or confused, and need a reset.  When you unplug it and plug it back in, you are rebooting it, just like you have to reboot Windows sometimes.  

 > (unplugging, waiting 2-3 minutes, replugging back in) increases my connection speed. Why?

Rebooting it clears out its memory and lets it start fresh.  Routers do not have all that much memory, and sometimes after a few days or weeks it gets full and needs to be cleared and reset.

Question: On a cold day after baking, will leaving the oven door open warm my house any more than leaving it closed?
Answer: At the end of the day, the same amount of energy would be released into your household.  Opening or closing the door will just allow the release of heat to happen faster or slower. 

With the door closed, the only effective way for the oven to lose the heat is to just radiate it out.  There is a small vent that will allow for some convection currents to carry heat out.

If you open the door, you are allowing for more convection currents to dissipate the heat into the room, as well as the normal thermal radiation.

So if you open the door, the room will heat up faster, but it won't last as long.

If you close the door, the room will heat up slower, but it will heat it up over a longer period of time.

Question: Why were the passengers on 9/11 hijacked flights able to call their loved ones on cell phones in the air before the crashes, but my modern cell phone loses all service pretty much instantly after takeoff.
Answer: I believe the passengers were using those clunky old airplane phones in the seat backs.  You'd just slide your credit card through and get a few minutes of not-especially-great service.

Question: What are "War Crimes" and who, or what, keeps nations from committing them?
Answer: The goal of war isn't to kill people -- the goal of war is to defeat your opponent. This can be done without killing anyone, or it can be done by wiping everyone out. The problem with wiping everyone out, though, is that you **really** need to justify it in order to prevent **another** war from breaking out against you for your actions.

In Germany, for example, we didn't really need to wipe everyone out to win that war -- just people that made up the Nazi regime. And even then, we didn't need to kill them all to officially win. Compare that, though, to Japan -- there was a chance that we may have had to nearly wipe them all out (civilians and otherwise) due to their society's loyalty to the Emperor. It was only through the Emperor sanctioning the surrender that we were able to stop our onslaught.

To answer your question, though, "War Crimes" are the things that countries have agreed are not allowed and, if committed, then the country faces possible consequences once defeated.

Defeated is the important aspect of how it works. WW2 Germany and Japan, for example, had to pay for their war crimes after they were defeated... but they weren't the only country that had committed atrocities (the Soviet Union committed plenty of acts that would constitute war crimes, but they were on the winning side of things).

The United States has arguably committed war crimes (such as torture), and if there comes a point where the United States is defeated, then it may have to pay for those crimes.

 > why can't you just sneak up on them and murder them in there sleep or something

You can -- and we do. That isn't a war crime. War crimes are things like using certain weapons (bio/chemical warfare, nuclear, etc.), torture, unnecessary collateral damage, or not wearing a uniform while actively fighting in a war zone. 

Another issue with War Crimes in modern war fare is that "war crimes" are rules that **nations** have agreed to, which prevent them from committing certain acts against other nations during war... but modern warfare has largely been against groups of people who are not necessarily, officially, or technically from any single nation.

Take 9/11 for example. Most of the perpetrators were from Saudi Arabia, but Saudi Arabia didn't send them. Rather, they were sent by Al Queda, which was HQ'd in Afganistan, but Afganistan didn't technically support them.

Question: Why do we make the sound "Ow!" when we get hurt as opposed to any other noise?
Answer: Because that's what we observed our surroundings do when we were babies. 

It's culture. 

Like how many cultures have different ways to articulate animal sounds.

Question: Barbers/beauticians paying for "their chair"
Answer: The stylist is an independent contractor, not an employee... basically they are their own small business.

Imagine a strip mall with 5 storefronts. A landlord owns the whole building, and each business that wants to reach and serve their customers pays rent for the store. Doesn't matter if they make $1/month or $1million/month, they pay the rent they set with their landlord.

Now imagine a salon as a tiny strip mall with 5 businesses that each offer hair cuts as their business. Each makes the money they charge for cuts, other services, plus tips... for access to that chair, they pay a set amount and keep whatever they make. The chair fee covers the space, the equipment, the utilities, etc. Instead of a stylist bringing in $50/hour and getting paid $20/hour, they pay toward the fixed costs and then keep everything beyond that.

Question: Why do we spend so much money on capital punishment rather than just shooting those on death row?
Answer: The expense doesn't really come from the method of execution. It's the overhead of all the appeals.

Question: How do we know we aren't in a simulation? What is the science behind the studies and how do we know that science isn't just programming?
Answer: This isn't a theory that is currently testable by science; it's more a philosophical issue than a scientific one. 

As humans, all our perceptions are filtered through our senses as nerves. Per the [Brain in a Vat](_URL_0_) scenario, we have no objective way of proving that our sensory input is 'real'. As such, science has no real way of attacking the "Universe is a Simulation" problem, as any tests we run would, by definition, have to obey the rules of the simulation (aka the laws of physics). 

If I were designing a simulation and didn't want the AIs I put in it to be able to know its a simulation, I simply wouldn't give them access to the source code.

Question: Why does the sounds made by kid's toys slow down when the batteries start getting low?
Answer: In simple terms, most circuits that make sound or play back digitally recorded sounds use a timing circuit (like an oscillator) to send out the sound waves at a constant rate.

More expensive toys will use crystal-based oscillators and low-battery cutoff circuits to keep things from getting funky as the power level drops.  Cheaper toys use a few cheap components (like an RC circuit) to perform the timing.  These cheap circuits will keep running as battery level drops - even to the point where the clock slows down and the digital samples start playing back even slower.

Some musicians actually do this to cheap keyboards and kids toys on purpose to make funky sounds.  It's called [circuit bending](_URL_0_) and it's a lot of fun.

Question: Why do fans always have controls that go: off, 3, 2, 1 instead of off, 1, 2, 3?
Answer: because when you turn on a electric motor, you want it on it's max setting as having it on it's lowest setting may not be enough power to start the fan so then it will burnout.

Question: Why do mobile phone companies cap data on a monthly basis, but I have unlimited Internet access through my cable provider?
Answer: To prevent complete saturation of the cellular bandwidth, and to persuade you to pay them ridiculous quantities of money for more bandwidth allocation.

Question: What is a realistic way to get rid of the drug cartels in Mexico?
Answer: I am sure I won't be the first person to suggest this, but legalization seems like the only answer to me.

Legalization would make drug prices plummet, and create of flood of legitimate businesses into the market.  This cuts off their money, and thus their power.

Question: How are presidential polls considered to be representative of public opinion when I've never met someone who has actually sat through a phone interview for one?
Answer: Your typical professionally-conducted presidential poll talks to around 1000 people; in the presidential election season, there might be two dozen major polls conducted in a month for two years. That's roughly ~576,000 (=24 x 24  x 1000) people polled per presidential election, or about 1 person in 600.  

And by the way, I am one of those people. (I did a phone poll during the '12 election)

Question: Why are people so against wind farms?
Answer: Apart from the wildlife issues (which I think get over-stated a bit) and the fact that a lot of people don't like looking at them, the real problem is the pay-off time (when they've generated enough power to cover their cost) is often longer than the service life of the hardware and the energy cost to produce them is huge.

Question: Are transgenders allowed in the sports?
Answer: Your question brings up a couple of issues that can be easily conflated.  I read your question to be: "Are transgendered persons allowed to compete as the sex they have transitioned to? (e.g., a male-to-female transgendered person competing as a woman)"

The answer to that is that it depends.  On the international level, the IOC recently released new guidelines on the issue: _URL_0_

TL;DR: A trans male (female-to-male) can compete as a man (they usually can't compete as women if they are taking testosterone); a trans woman (male-to-female) can compete as a woman if they can prove their testosterone levels have been below a certain point for at least a year - surgery is no longer required.

In the US, the NCAA has had a policy since at least 2011: _URL_1_

TL;DR: A trans male (FTM) student-athlete who has received a medical exception for treatment with testosterone ... may compete on a men’s team, but is no longer eligible to compete on a women’s
team without changing that team status to a mixed team; A trans female (MTF) student-athlete being treated with testosterone suppression medication ... may continue to compete on a men’s team but may not compete on a women’s team without
changing it to a mixed team status until completing one calendar year of testosterone suppression treatment.

This also often gets confused with how to determine if someone is a man or a woman (or, the more common issue: whether the person is intersex).  There are a number of conditions wherein someone is either hermaphroditic or has a disorder that causes a biological male to develop ~female sex organs (e.g., androgen insensitivity).  These can cause problems for simple divisions of gender, but are not technically related to trans athletes.

EDIT: At lower levels, the rules are not as consistent or have not been formally put in place and its possible some trans female athletes are getting an advantage.

Question: Why do we feel the weird banging in our body when listening to loud live music
Answer: Sound is pressure waves moving through the air that vibrate your eardrums.

Your ribcage doesn't have much that is solid behind it to stop it vibrating to large, low frquency pressure waves.

Question: Why a humidifier doesn't use as much energy as an electric kettle?
Answer: A kettle's job is to boil a whole lot of water very fast.

A humidifer's job is basically boil a small amounts of water slowly.

The amount of energy used to boil 1L of water in a kettle dry is the same as the amount used by a humidifer to use up 1L, however a kettle will use all that energy in like a minute, whereas the humidifier will take hours.

So working it out as energy / hour (which is what we call "power") the kettle use much more.

Question: How do bare-knuckle boxers not/rarely break their own fists?
Answer: Bare knuckles boxers don't hit as hard as ones with gloves.

It may seem counter-intuitive, but a fighter with gloves is actually far more dangerous than a fighter without them. The fighter with gloves can launch full-force attacks that create a huge impact wave in their target. In contrast, the fighter without gloves will break their hands long before they break the opponent's bones.

That's why sports such as MMA and rugby tend not to have concussion issues but sports such as boxing and American football do - the padding allows you to deliver far more force (and do far more damage).

Note that true 'bare knuckles' boxing is extremely rare not due to breaking bones but due to tearing skin. In an athletic competition, you'd put tape on their hands to prevent it from turning into a bloodfest.

Question: Why do old broken bones and injuries hurt when there are extreme highs or lows in the weather.
Answer: Weather is caused by pressure differences. Like when you see on the weather channel the (H) and (L) converging. [here](_URL_0_) you can see a great visualization of that.

All our joints have fluid in them (Like oiling your gears) and we're used to the fluid expanding and contracting normally under different atmospheric pressures, but after an injury it changes the way we feel that fluid, and when the pressure changes suddenly it changes the pressure inside our bodies as well. That's why my grandma's magic knee can predict the weather. Not because she used to run in the rain like she says.

Question: How come people who are crossing Europe illegally are considered migrants and not illegal immigrants?
Answer: Well a migrant is just somebody who travels, could be an immigrant or an emigrant. As for the North African and Middle Eastern immigrants, they're refugees of a war zone so referring to them as "illegal immigrants" creates a certain stereotype which they don't deserve.

Question: With so much advancement in communications. Why are we still not able to find the missing flight Malaysia Airlines Flight MH370?
Answer: I think many people that believe MH370 can be discovered easily is mislead by how enormous the area of search is, and how minute the plane is compared to it. I made an image to show how much this plane can cover in an hour. (777-200 typical cruising speed 0.84 Mach, assume 20 Celsius and 1 ATM, that's 1039 kilometres per hour, although it will change depends on environment temperature and air pressure; at 35000 ft it will be much colder so I would assume the coverage will be smaller): [_URL_2_](_URL_2_).

Note that the graduation is one per 200 kilometres, and each graduation is 84 pixels on my screen. The overall length of an 777-200 is 63.7 metres and its wingspan is 60.9 metres, which means it will take 0.026754 pixels by 0.025452 pixels to show it on my screen (and since it is so minuscule, it will probably not even show up on my screen).


If I zoom in, this time the graduation changed to one (55 pixels) per 2 km, this means the aircraft will show up as 1.75175 pixels by 1.67475 pixels, rounding it to 2 pixels by 2 pixels, it will look like this: [_URL_1_
](_URL_1_) (I put it in white background to make it distinct). You can see how misleading the pin on the map can be.

When the blackboxes (Cockpit Voice Recorder and Flight Data Recoder) hit water, an underwater locator beacon should be activated, which, if function properly, will send certain radio signal at certain frequency for a certain period of time (usually 30 days). If the search and rescue team can locate the beacon, they should be able to locate the fuselage. But as I previously mentioned, it can be really hard, as the area of search is just huge. 

*The 777-200 overall length and typical cruising speed is taken here: [_URL_0_](_URL_0_)*

Question: Why are some people not immune to Hepatitis B?
Answer: Like anything else

1. Maybe they did not receive the vaccine

2. Maybe the vaccine they received was ineffective

3. Maybe their body did not properly react to the vaccine and therefore never built the right anti-bodies

4. Maybe they are immunosuppressed due to transplant or disease

Question: Why do tickets dispensed by arcade machines always seem to arrange themselves into neat piles?
Answer: One of the ways tickets can come from the factory is in accordion-folded stacks. (The other is on spools.) After they're fed out of the machine, the tend to fold back the way they were.

Question: Why don't we, instead of filling tires with air, just make them out of solid rubber?
Answer: Solid rubber weighs way too much.

Edit: they are experimenting with airless tires though. Imagine a hollow honeycomb in a circle. I think they're plastic. I've looked into this, and will post a link as soon as I find it.

Edit edit: [Link]( _URL_0_) this is some pretty cool stuff. I last looked into it a few years ago and there wasn't much info on it except the military was testing it. The pictures I saw then, the outer surface was hexagonal too, and it was said to be a really bumpy ride.

Question: What would happen to a plane that was flying within the Earths atmosphere but suddenly began to experience no force of gravity?
Answer: well let's suppose that can happen.   who would happen.

plane's going at some 500 mph relative to ground at altitude of 30,000ft.   God turns off gravity in the entire universe.

first thing that'd happen.   all the passengers would freak out.     

next thing that'd happen, the plane would start gaining altitude fast.   not just because of lift, but because the plane was traveling at 500mph on a vector tangent to the Earth ground.   the only thing that was keeping it at a constant 30,000 feet is gravity.  

so as the plane still has the engines on, its still accelerating further and faster away from the ground.

after a while, air itself gets thinner and starts drifting into space,  because gravity is what holds the air to the ground.  

all of that isn't as important as what happens to the Sun.  without gravity, there's nothing to hold the Sun together.   it explodes and within 8 minutes, you're toast.

Question: how does circumcision not count as illegal genital mutilation?
Answer: Simply because it's a socially accepted act that is rooted in religion with Western cultures. If the act were not Westernized, it would be considered mutilation.

Question: How is Stephen Colbert a character? What is different between Stephen Colbert and "Stephen Colbert"?
Answer: Stephen Colbert played a character by the same name on his Comedy Central show "The Colbert Report". The fictional Colbert was a parody of the kind of personality-driven opinion shows common on nighttime cable news networks.

While that was a very popular character that was appropriate for his cable show, it wouldn't be appropriate for a host of a major network late night talk show. So, what you're seeing there is Stephen Colbert, the comedian, and not the character he previously played of the same name.

Question: Why do black tattoos turn blue eventually?
Answer: Cheap ink and Sun Exposure.
Not all black inks fade to blue.
My grandfather's 35yr old tattoo is still black, mind you it's blurry due to 30 years of aging.

Question: How do music producers create "remastered" albums?
Answer: There's a couple of ways that vary in how much it's involved. 

There are three stages to production of traditional records. Tracking, mixing, and mastering. A remaster can involve redoing any one of those three steps. 

Tracking is the stage where the musicians are in the studio. Their play is recorded to individual "tracks" on a tape or digital recorder, hence the name. 

Mixing is the art of taking those recorded tracks and combining them so they sound balanced and "good." The definition of "good" changes depending on time as tastes change and technology gets better. For example, old records couldn't have loud bass because on vinyl it causes the needle to skip. CDs and digital don't have that problem, so you can go back and mix a record to have stronger bass. That can change the overall balance of the song so you need to change how it interacts with everything else. Doing a remix (not like a DJ remix) relies on having the original tape tracks or good digital copies of them. Those can degrade over time, which may require going back to redo the tracking. 

After mixing is the process of mastering. Mastering is the art of preparing a record for release. You don't affect the mix or individual tracks, you mess with the entire combined mix (or "master" as its called). There's book keeping work here like controlling fades between songs in an album, placing start and end markers and editing metadata, but also things like controlling the overall color of a record and balancing songs across an album so they flow well to the ear. This is the easiest thing to redo, as you only need the original master and not all the individual tracks. 

Remastering is often done to change a record for new mediums. CDs really changed how we could listen to music, so remastering helped get old recordings to better qualities that were limited by vinyl. 

There are other things, like for example the loudness war. Remember how I mentioned that loud bass would cause a needle to skip? Well when CDs got good enough, we were able to make music a whole lot louder. Turns out loud music releases more endorphins in the brain and people like it more in small doses. There was a push in the late 90s up until about 2012 or so to make records as loud as possible so people liked them more when they heard one song on the radio. Turns out it's bad for listening to music for extended periods of time and causes ear fatigue and damage. No good. So a few years ago, streaming services like Spotify and Apple radio started automatically reducing the volume of songs past a certain target loudness (not the same as volume). Now we see people moving towards getting their masters at that target loudness, meanwhile the old records were hung out to dry. So to make them better they go back to the masters and redo some of the techniques used to get them so loud.

Question: How does a jail broken phone work? Do they create a whole new OS or just add stuff on to the old OS?
Answer: Jailbreaking (Or Rooting on Android), is the same operating system it was before, you're just modifying the system to allow you to do things that were previously not allowed.  It's called jailbreaking because normally apps run in a jail or a sandbox that keeps them contained and limited.  So once you've modified the system you've literally jailbroken it.

iOS (and to a lesser extent Android), are designed so that everything runs in a sandbox that can't do any harm to the more important background stuff.  This is to prevent viruses and other malicious code from running and causing problems.  That sandbox is very restrictive though and prevents you from doing a lot.  Android lets you access a lot more, but until you root it, it's limited too.  (Like how you can't delete some default apps etc).  

Apple is slowing allowing more and more (custom keyboards, extensions etc), so jailbreaking is much less necessary that it used to be.  There are some things we'll never get without one though, (Caller ID spoofing apps and other 'kind of illegal' apps.)

Question: How can the Department of Homeland Security actually run out of money? (since the House just failed to extend funding) A
Answer: Congress doesn't budget for departments to build reserves like that, so when they stop cutting checks that's all she wrote

Question: Why do we feel like time has passed after sleeping but not after being given general anesthetic?
Answer: I had my first experience with general anesthesia this year and felt the same. Waking from a nap or a night's sleep, there a sense of time having passed. After general anesthesia there's just a blank with no sense of duration.

Question: I I work in the medical field one of my jobs is to encapsulate exposed wires with epoxy and then hit it with ultraviolate rays to cure it. I am curious, How does light cause the substance to go from liquid to solid, and why is it conductive when it is liquid, and nonconductive when it is solid?
Answer: The UV light causes a polymerization within the epoxy.

The epoxy is composed of a bunch of small single molecules, called monomers, that are floating around more or less freely. However, when exposed to UV light, they are given energy that gets used in bonding the monomers together into big molecules of repeating units, called polymers. This process causes a dramatic change in the atomic structure of the substance, solidifying it and altering its electrochemical properties. 

Think of the monomers like a bunch of unconnected chain links floating around. What the UV light does is come in and bond the links together forming a solid chain (the polymer). 

I sadly don't have the background to explain the change in the electrical conductivity, but suffice to say a different atomic structure will drastically change how electrons can move through it.

Question: why is it a bad idea to make hate speech /political incorrectness illegal?
Answer: >  I can't quite articulate why *and I'd like to read the opinions of others*. 

Because you wouldn't have the opinions of others if you ban free speech. Some things aren't nice to say/hear, but education is the key.

Question: How does Grooveshark play whatever song you want for free while Pandora requires you to listen to radio stations with mandatory commercials?
Answer: Pandora operates completely legitimately, while Grooveshark technically does not.  Grooveshark has been involved in the occasional lawsuit, and more will likely come.  Its more a matter of the fact that Grooveshark has remained more under the radar, and with so many different sources of what may be called copyright infringement on the internet, it takes massive popularity for one roll into the spotlight enough so that it is targeted specifically by the RIAA or whoever else may be involved.

Question: The purpose of the painted spiral on the front of an aircraft engine.
Answer: It visualizes the speed at which the turbine spins, since the turbine blades move so fast that you can't distinguish between a slowly idling engine and one which has full power. The spiral can be distinguished even at high speed, since it changes only a little bit each revolution. This is mainly useful for reasons of safety, but [apparently it also deters birds.](_URL_0_)

Question: Why does pouring beer into a glass of ice make it go flat?
Answer: CO2 bubbles usually don't form just at random in the middle of a fluid. Instead, they need to form in cavitation points, which are basically tiny nicks in the surface of something which change the properties of the carbonic acid form of CO2 enough that it turns back into a gas. This is why you usually see a stream of bubbles coming out of one or two places at the bottom of your beer glass. Those streams are above cavitation points.

Adding ice increases the total surface area the beer is touching, and thus increases the number of cavitation points available. In addition, ice can crack and become rougher than glass, creating a ton more cavitation points than you would get on the surface of a glass.

Question: What are CETA and TTIP, and why are some countries so opposed to it?
Answer: [This](_URL_0_) is actually a really good article about why people are scared of it. Add on top of that. all the negotiations have been behind closed doors, so our fearless leaders are going to push things that a lot of people are dead against down over their heads. Thus the pushback. Some of us consider ISDS a crime against humanity.
 
So what's good about it?
 
Well, trade is going to be easier. But also mobility. Right now, as a European, you're a second-rank citizen if you want to get a job in the US and vice versa. So NAFTA allows Canadians to just grab a job if they want. A German or an Ethiopean end up on the second tier. This would change, and Europeans and Americans would find it easier to get job permits for the other respective countries.
 
And both governments are very protective when it comes to trade. This would open up trade and make it easier for a dutch manufacturer to sell to the US market.
 
All depending on what they actually agree to.

Question: the numbers in the periodic table of elements
Answer: It depends on which numbers you are referring to. They all deal with the chemical and physical properties of the element.

The most common are:

Atomic Number (the number of protons): which essentially defines the element. For example, an oxygen atom is only oxygen if it has 8 protons.

Atomic Mass (the average weight of an atom of this substance): which says how much the element ways assuming you have the normal distribution of isotopes. 

Anything else?

Question: fluoroantimonic acid ph
Answer: pH is kind of a useless way to talk about acidity because it depends on the concentration of the acid in its solution. A better metric is called pKa. Without getting into detail, the more negative the pKa is, the stronger an acid is. And it's a logarithmic scale (meaning that if something has a pKa that's higher by 1, then it's actually 10 times more acidic. Higher by 2, then 100x more acidic etc.). The pKa of stomach acid (HCl) is -6.3. The pKa of fluoroantimonic acid is -25. So it's about 19 pKa points more acidic, or 10 000 000 000 000 000 000 (ten quintillion) times more acidic than stomach acid.

The reason is because you have a positively charged fluorine. Now, fluorine really  *really*  likes electrons. In fact, more so than any other atom. Electrons are negatively charged, so if we've got a positively charged fluorine, that means we robbed it of electrons. And it really,  *really*  **really**  wants them back. An acid is really defined as anything that wants to take electrons, and the strength of an acid is ultimately defined as how badly it wants those electrons. Since positively charged fluorine really  *really*  **really**  wants those electrons, it is an incredibly strong acid.

EDIT: Since there seems to be some questions regarding why we're even talking about positively charged fluorines, I'll explain that here. The antimony part of fluoroantimonic acid comes from the addition of SbF5 (antimony pentafluoride) to twice as much HF. SbF5 is strong enough to rip the fluoride from HF, leaving H+. But remember, we've got only half as much SbF5 as HF, so the extra HF is left with the job of taking on the orphaned H+ ions. This leaves you with SbF6- and H2F+, which is fluoroantimonic acid.

Question: How do sites like google or yahoo come into existence? Does someone just decide one day that they want to invent something new and make it part of the internet? I know they aren't using Go Daddy to run this shit...
Answer: Google started out as a PhD project by Sergey Brin and Larry Page while they were doctorate students at Stanford. To prove the concept they used some of the computers that were available to Compsci grad students at that university, and initially they put it publicly on the web at the URL of _URL_0_ (it had an internal Stanford-only URL before that).

As its popularity grew they realised they had the opportunity to form a viable company using the technology so bought the _URL_1_ domain, got some VC funding to set up the hardware they needed, and the rest is history.

So to answer your question -- yes, you just need to invent something. Many web-based ideas can be proved to work (or to not work!) with a prototype using nothing more powerful than your own PC, and if you do need something with a bit more power then these days it's easy to spin up virtual machines in the cloud for pretty low cost.

Once you have a working prototype the hard part is convincing others that it's good enough for them to invest in -- the big hurdle is moving from proof-of-concept to a working company, as that step takes money.

Question: Why do governments not put extra taxes on sugar, salt and fat to make the population healthier?
Answer: Take a look at how New York City's ban on large sodas went. Soda lobbies fought it. People didn't like it, they felt that the government was impeding on their freedom to consume how they deem fit.

Question: What is the significance of prime numbers in encryption? Why are we trying to find bigger ones?
Answer: If you take one number, let's say five, and multiply it by itself some number of times, let's say three, you get an exponential expression, which we would write in this case as 5^3 = 125 which we say as five to the power of three is 125. If we made the three bigger, the result would get huge very fast. It's really easy for a computer to calculate an exponent though. On the other hand, what if we knew that 5 raised to some power is 78125, can we easily figure out what the missing number is? This is still very easy for computers to do using a function called the logarithm.

Remember that when you divide two numbers, a/b, you may get a remainder. We call this remainder the modulo of base b (the denominator, or second number in the division). Sometimes it's just called 'the modulo', for short if it's understood what the base is.

We will use base five. What is the modulo of 7^2? 7^2 is equal to 49, if we divide by five there is a remainder of 4. So the modulo is 4. This is still a very easy computation for a computer to do. But what if we know that 7 raised to some power modulo 5 is equal to 4; can we figure out what the mising number is? There's a limited number of answers you can get, so you know that there has to be more than one possible solution. It turns out that solving this problem (called the discrete logarithm problem) is very hard for computers to do. Any computer could handle the given problem easily, but only because the numbers used are really small, it becomes essentially impossible for sufficiently large numbers.

So what does this have to do with prime numbers? Let's say you have some known number raised to the power of a variable modulo some known base, and you start plugging in values for the variable, 1,2,3 and so on you will eventually get to a point where the sequence of values starts repeating itself. Every number in the sequence will be between zero and one less than the base of the modulo, but you might not get *all* of these. It turns out that if the first constant is a prime number, you will get every possible value no matter what the base is. This is the mathematical property that public key encryption (the kind that relies on prime numbers) exploits.

I mentioned before that crypto systems need to use really big prime numbers. A more honest statement, mathematically, would be that they rely on kinda large prime numbers. The size of the prime number depends on how much computing power it needs to be able to withstand. As computers in general get faster, we need to use larger prime numbers to remain secure.

The largest prime numbers that we know are much, much, much, much bigger than the prime numbers we deal with in crypto. Knowing these numbers isn't particularly useful in and of itself. Mostly we're just interested in finding *more* prime numbers because there are still lots of things the best mathematicians can't figure out about them. Because there are just so many of them though, we tend to be interested in the biggest ones we can find (we've known for a few thousand years that there is not a biggest prime number). One interesting property of prime numbers is that the bigger you get, the further apart they become. This means that when a new biggest prime number is found, there's a good chance it will be a fair bit larger than the previous one.

Question: how does sexual attraction mature with age?
Answer: Well there's plenty I could go into, but basically some of the main factors in attraction is being able to tell that the person is able to produce children. So young men easily find women in their 20s and 30s attractive. However with the age of the female the rate of abnormalities in the fetus increases, and the general health of the born child decreases. So up to a point young age in females becomes important, so signs of youth are many factors. A flat tummy is a sign that a woman is not already carrying a child containing another man's genes. And wide hips signify ability to give birth to a large cranium, and wide hips are sort of slightly increased by magic because the older a woman gets she will gain some thigh thickness which will be seen as hip width. 
The largest factor in attraction is actually time spent with the person, and stalking social media profiles and thinking about someone, counts neurologically as the same thing. It just doesn't count both ways unless the other one also does this. This is nature's way of making sure everyone pairs up, in the event that a "10" isn't available. So maybe you spend too much time staring at 30 year old women in your youth. 

In my book "What's the point? The meaning of life and everything" I raised the question; What would we use to decide between potential spouses if not these factors which are overwhelmingly for the benefit of the health of the child that would result from the pairing(1)? And I concluded among other things that men should probably give a few extra points for women with careers and established personalities and drives and hobbies. Something young women do not have. A man's life would undoubtedly be more interesting if the woman in the relationship was wealthy, even if the genes of the kid (which may or may not be the goal for both parties) may be technically worse off. So that's one argument for not "being normal" and trying to find the youngest hottest waitress around in favor for perhaps a slightly older doctor or investment banker. Rather ironically its not unlikely that the latter two would have a higher sex drive, which is a point more from the male's perspective. 

(1)Being attractive doesn't mean we're pleasant to be around, so finding the most attractive person alive that we could possibly woo, is not a guarantee that we will be happy or have rich lives. Just see all the solid 10 couples that break up.

Question: How is it that the Monty Hall problem and the gambler's fallacy don't contradict each other?
Answer: The key to the Monty Hall problem is that the door that's removed from play is *never* the door with the prize and *never* the door you initially chose.

So if you choose a door at random, you initially have a 1/3 chance of being right and a 2/3 chance of being wrong. One of the doors you didn't choose is then removed from play; if the prize is behind one of those two doors, you now know that it *must* be behind the remaining door. Hence the 2/3 chance if you change your guess.

The gambler's fallacy only applies to independent events. The Monty Hall problem is two dependent events.

Question: Why are there 360 degrees?
Answer: "The Sumerians watched the Sun, Moon, and the five visible planets (Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn), primarily for omens. They did not try to understand the motions physically. They did, however, notice the circular track of the Sun's annual path across the sky and knew that it took about 360 days to complete one year's circuit. Consequently, they divided the circular path into 360 degrees to track each day's passage of the Sun's whole journey. This probably happened about 2400 BC.

That's how we got a 360 degree circle. Around 1500 BC, Egyptians divided the day into 24 hours, though the hours varied with the seasons originally. Greek astronomers made the hours equal. About 300 to 100 BC, the Babylonians subdivided the hour into base-60 fractions: 60 minutes in an hour and 60 seconds in a minute. The base 60 of their number system lives on in our time and angle divisions.

An 100-degree circle makes sense for base 10 people like ourselves. But the base-60 Babylonians came up with 360 degrees and we cling to their ways-4,400 years later." -*Abraham Lincoln* 

Jk this quote was taken from [here](_URL_0_)

Question: How do animals become domesticated and why are some not able to be domesticated?
Answer: DishonestStranger has a good summary regarding criteria for domestication. 

The "how" can be complicated and appears to be different for different animals. 

The prominent theory on dogs is that there was a "self domestication" that occurred many tens of thousands of years ago when humans lived in social groups alongside wolves. The "most social and least fearful" wolves would be kept around human living areas and could scavenge off refuse. Once these proto-dogs became completely comfortable around humans they were then bred for many different uses - hunting, herding, sledding, etc. Check the wiki on "Origin of the domestic dog" for more info. 

Cat domestication was quite different, but is also thought to be a "self domestication" of sorts. Humans developed agriculture and started to organize into larger communities some 10 to 15 thousand years ago. The storage of grain and other produce, along with the larger communities attracted pests like mice and rats. Cats are obvious natural predators and the theory is that we tolerated and lived along side them because they gave us free pest control (and they are purry). 

For other animals I do not know as much, I am only a layman but the domestication of dogs and cats is fascinating to me so I know a (tiny)  bit.

Question: The Unabomber
Answer: Ted Kaczynski was incredibly smart. He was accepted to Harvard at 16. While there he participated in a study about stress interviews in which someone berated and belittled him because of his personal philosophical views. His recorded facial reactions were played back to him at the end of the study. People have argued that his experience in this experiment caused his psychological issues but that seems like a bit much. 

He came to believe that modern industrial society was destroying the individual and that society's problems were caused by modern values that were in conflict with how humans developed in the wild. Industrial society, instead of recognizing the cause of these problems, sought to control individuals. Kaczynski came to believe that society had to be violently overthrown. His bombing campaign was inspired by "eco-anarchist" terrorists. He targeted UNiversities and Airlines, which got him the name UNABOM, which became Unabomber.

Question: The Tree Of Life
Answer: The Tree of Life is primarily about sublime experience more than it is about deep story.

_URL_0_

Sublime is a philosophical concept about the sensation of being incapable of taking in the entire power and magnitude of something, especially something natural. Looking at the night sky and imagine all the stars, looking out at the vastness of the ocean, standing at the foot of an enormous mountain.

Tree of Life's "story," is more about Mallick resolving his thoughts on his childhood, but the point of Tree of Life (for audiences) isn't the story. Tree of Life is about pushing sublimity, the overwhelming power and beauty of imagery. I'm sorry you didn't enjoy it, but for many people (the Academy included), looking at the Tree of Life is the cinematic equivalent of taking in the Sistine Chapel.

Question: Why do European forests seem to have less underbrush than forests in the Eastern U.S.?
Answer: Im no expert but I believe its because they've been left alone to grow longer, when trees get bigger it cuts off sunlight to the floor, over time you get a lot less smaller plants in the underbrush due to that and maybe the bigger trees using up more nutrients. I recall reading that in USA it used to be possible to ride a horse through the forests easily because there was much less underbrush to deal with. Then practically all the forests were cleared at some point and in most places once they get big enough loggers come through and do it again. Also most forests in USA arent entirely natural, certain varities of trees are planted for certain purposes and it's never with the goal of recreating a naturally occuring forest environment. Could be wrong or lacking info but that's my understanding of it.

Question: what consequences if any are there from streaming tv shows on your computer?
Answer: Hardware like your monitor and the CPU have to be working, and those can only work for very roughly 50 000 hours. Your ISP might bill you if you go over your cap if you go over your cap... and have a cap to go over to begin with.

Were you thinking there was something special going on here?

Question: Why Are Fundraising Sites Necessary to Some for Medical Expenses (in the US)?
Answer: Insurance is a tricky thing in the U.S. Not all insurance is the same nor does it cover the same things. It's entirely possible to go to a doctor that is not covered by your insurance and have a procedure done which you thought was covered and it isn't so you end up with high medical bills. A $50,000 medical bill could very well be a three day stay at the hospital. If you don't have health insurance and you have no income because you are unemployed you may not qualify for Obamacare otherwise known as the affordable care act. There are people who don't work but live with a roommate or significant other that does not qualify for Medicaid because they take the total income of the house and not the income of the specific person applying so everyone who lives in the house is counted even though not everyone is applying. So in other words it's entirely possible to be flat broke with no income coming into your bank account but still be considered to have too much money to qualify for Medicaid because you happen to live with someone who is willing to put a roof over your head and feed you so that you're not homeless and they make too much money for you to qualify for medical care. 

If you have no health insurance then everything is out of pocket.  There are several reasons why you wouldn't have health insurance such as being unemployed, being a part time employee, or working for a company that doesn't offer health insurance.  Some employers offer health insurance but it's not really good insurance. For example, my last employer offered a high deductible health plan which means that you pay the first $2,500 in medical expenses out of pocket and everything else was covered. All of my prescriptions are in the tier 3 category which means that they are $50 a piece. I could not move to a lower tier medicine because they don't work. That means that with health insurance I'm still paying the first $2,500 and paying $300 in medications per month. This deductible is fine if you have an ER visit or if you go to the doctor once a year, but if you go to the doctor monthly like I do then it gets real expensive really quickly and takes up a significant amount of income per month.

It is entirely possible to fix this with a single payer system but the arguments I've heard against it is that I'm healthy and I have insurance so why should I be paying for your medical care when you don't take care of yourself? Ok but you're already paying for my medical care. If I don't have health insurance and I go to the ER and have surgery I'm not going to be able to pay $50,000 or $80,000. That means that they are going to raise the cost of everything to cover the cost of people who don't pay. That's why a Tylenol costs $200 when you go to the hospital because you are already paying for my medical care.  The other thing I've heard is that people don't want to pay more taxes to help pay for it. So the alternative is that you'd rather not pay the taxes and gamble that even with health insurance you won't end up in an emergency situation where you end up shipped off to an out of pocket doctor where you may end up with $80,000 medical bill. Gotcha. Basically the mentality is I had to work for it and I don't see why you get to get something that you didn't work for when I have to work my ass off for what I have. The question to me is not really if you want to pay for everyone's medical care but how you would like to pay for it. If you have insurance you're paying for the uninsured by inflated medical costs already or you can raise taxes and still pay for the uninsured.

Question: If/Once the Cuban Embargo is lifted, what will change?
Answer: It will be easier people in the US to visit Cuba, acquire Cuban goods and do business in Cuba. Vice-versa for people in Cuba dealing with the US.

Question: After a recent deed, someone told "that was mighty white of ya". What does that phrase mean?
Answer: Their intended meaning: that you did something nice that they appreciate.

The actual meaning: black people are incapable of goodness or decency.

Question: Why do the majority of living things, like animals, insects, and bugs, require oxygen to survive?
Answer: Living cells need Oxygen to react with the food we eat to get energy - It's basically the same thing as burning, but much less ''violent'', and produces the same waste (Co2). Oxygen is used for this due to how easily it reacts, but it's possible to use other gasses as well.

There are lots of bacteria that do not need oxygen, even some that can get poisoned by it. However, all anaerobic (Does not need oxygen) life is pretty much microscopical. The biggest thing not using Oxygen was found a few years ago: _URL_0_

Question: Explain 4k vs 1080p and other TV display resolutions to me
Answer: There are two things to consider (well, more, but two that I will go into):  resolution, and pixel size.  All "1080p" screens will be 1,920 pixels wide and 1,080 pixels tall.  However, you can have a 1080p screen that is pretty small (I think that smartphones are approaching this) or you can have a 1080p screen that is 50+ inches across the diagonal.

The way that is accomplished is with the pixel size (pixel "pitch" is what this is called).  A smartphone will have some of the closest packed pixels out of any screen, while a computer monitor is more moderate, and a TV typically has the largest pixels.

For reference, a "4k" screen is 3,840 pixels wide and 2,160 tall.  Note that 4k is named for its horizontal measurement, while 1080p is named for its vertical measurement, as is 720p, 480p, 360p, etc.

Question: Who/what is the "Chair" of the Senate, and who tells him/her what to do?
Answer: The [president pro tempore of the senate](_URL_0_), meaning president for a time, is the second highest ranking Senator and a senator who serves as something like acting senate president in absence of the Vice President.  The position was created in the Constitution (Article I Section 3):

 > The Senate shall choose their other Officers, and also a President pro tempore, in the absence of the Vice President, or when he shall exercise the Office of President of the United States.

In practice, the president pro tempore frequently delegates the day to day operations of presiding over the senate to more junior members of his party to provide them practice with the parliamentary process, and senators address whomever is filling the role with the honorary titles. 

The woman conferring with the Senator presiding over the senate is possibly to be the [Senate's Parliamentarian](_URL_1_), who is their senior adviser on Senate rules and proceedings.

Question: Why do the sounds of letters in the alphabet differ from the sounds of these letters in words?
Answer: English has a huge variety of sounds, but we are representing them with a fairly limited alphabet.  So many letters end up representing multiple sounds.


For instance, most accents have 24 consonant sounds and somewhere around 20 vowel sounds, but the alphabet only has 21 consonant letters and 5 vowel letters.  Since there aren't enough letters to go around, some sounds need to share letters (especially for the vowels).

Question: Where do creationists say the flood water drained to?
Answer: It's in the atmosphere now. Prior to the flood it had never rained. 

Edit: I inferred this from the Bible. It is my interpretation.

Question: How can investigators find incriminating e-mails?
Answer: Well, first of all, people are not as keen on deleting email as you may think. Personally, I have every single one of mine since 1997.

And, really, not everyone is comfortable enough around technology to understand that an email that is moved to the trash folder will stay there for a while before being deleted.

Added to that, the server that stores the incoming mail might be set up to retain deleted email for a while. Because it's easier to restore email a client deleted if it's actually stored away somewhere for a short while.

Some government agencies and some companies that find this to be useful have a mail system parallel to the one the users have access to, where incoming email is stored indefinitely. (just to name one example. I live in Sweden. Tax funded entities are forced by law to store all documents going on and out for a pretty long time. This includes email. If they have received it or sent it, they are forced by law to have a copy. That copy is also available at the request of any member of the public.) To ensure that there is always a paper trail that can be followed later.

There is also a chance that previously deleted email are available on a computer that the user logged on to once in the past, because that is kind of how Windows handles user profiles.

Added to that, a file on a computer is not necessarily gone just because it is deleted. If can be partially gone. Or hard to distinguish from garbage. Or possible to restore because the physical hard drive retains "hints" of data that has been on it, that can be checked with special equipment later, in an attempt to find something that was once there.

A server for email is one of the most important pieces of equipment the company has. Without it, they will have loss of income and be totally drained on their productivity. The email server is so dan important that it's well backed up. One way or another, the data is often stored in more than one facility. Or backed up onto magnetic tape. Or any other scheme that ensures that even if the server is literally on fire, at the very least the data is still there and can be restored.

Backing up data to tape is a time-consuming business, so to make it happen in the first place the backup system often has a computer that stores the backup mid-way to the tape machine. By looking at that computer, you can get a lot of hints on what has been on the master system in the past.

Often you need to use a lot of tapes, so the tapes are handled by a robot that automatically switches tapes. And since tapes are a physical media, it makes sense to even out the wear and tear of the physical tapes. In other words, parts of a backup that is a month old might sit on a tape in the robot that the robot has deemed unfit, and marked for replacement. It will never be overwritten again, because the robot rightfully believes that the tape is giving up.

That is the ways I can think of right now to find email at a specific organisation. But, you know. Email always has a sender and a recipient. Chances are that it was outbound. Or came in from the outside. This means that you can do this exact audit again at a totally different organisation and perhaps get a better result.

Question: Why do planes disappear in the Bermuda Triangle?
Answer: The area actually has no special power to make planes disappear. However, it is prone to storms, and there are wide stretches with no place to land, so from time to time a small plane is lost with no witnesses.

Question: How do people move giraffes from one location to another?
Answer: In a crate on a truck.  [Like this](_URL_0_ )  There was a recent incident in the news where a giraffe was killed when its head hit an overpass, but that sort of incident isn't the accepted standard of care in most facilities.

Question: What would happen if you filled up a tire with a liquid, say water, instead of air but to the same psi?
Answer: It would be much bumpier ride as water doesn't compress like air does. It might also cause the tire to explode if you hit a bump for the same reason.

Edit: It would also make your car quite a bit heavier. So you would have slower acceleration and longer stopping distance.

Question: What do babies dream about?
Answer: I have a 12-month-old baby who can say about 10 identifiable words now - meaning they might not sound like the word to someone else, but she says them consistently so I know what she means when she says them.

Anyway, I turned on the TV and there was a picture of the ocean, which she had never seen before. It had rolling white waves crashing on a beach. She lit up and said, "Milk!"

So yeah. I think she dreams of oceans of milk.

Question: how do water and sun benefit flowers after they've already been cut from where they grew?
Answer: Cut plants don't die immediately -- they're not like animals that need circulating blood to transfer oxygen around constantly.

One main purpose of roots is to carry water from the earth up to the leaves -- there's no heart pumping, the water moves through capillary action, which can happen at any point along the plant's veins -- so if you cut off a stem and put it in water, it will still draw water up to the leaves and petals as if it were roots at the bottom end.

As long as the leaves are still getting water through the stem and can [respire](_URL_0_) they can still perform photosynthesis, so sitting in the sun still helps the plant live.

Being cut off, though, means that not all plant biology keeps acting normally, which is why cut flowers eventually die off.   Some plants, like a pothos, can grow new root systems from a cut stem, which is a way the plant reproduces.  Growing from cuttings is pretty common; it's because it's part of the plant's survival mechanism that they can grow that way.

Question: How can sulfur hexafluoride stay in someone’s lungs, but co2 doesn’t even though they are both more dense than air?
Answer: I hope another commenter corrects if I'm mistaken, but I would think that Sulfur hexafluoride CAN stay in your lungs, but doesn't automatically stay there like it's stuck. It takes more effort to get it out because it's very heavy, but I've seen videos of people inhaling it so clearly they're able to get it out too, maybe with some extra effort.


It's also way heavier than CO2. Sulphur hexafluoride is gonna be Sulphur and six Flourines. I'm too lazy to look up the weight of that but it is a hell of a lot heavier than a carbon and two oxygens.

Question: I am near sighted, how come when I look through a scope, or binoculars, without corrective lens', everything is not crystal clear?
Answer: Any scope you look through will have a focus adjuster. You can adjust the scope so that your sight will be focused on any specific point. This action will also correct for any vision issues you may have (though if someone with different vision uses the scope after you to look at the same point, they will have to change the focus.)

Question: Why does meat change colour when it's cooked?
Answer: That's the [Maillard reaction](_URL_0_). [This thread](_URL_1_) might help.

Question: Why do we sometimes blank out and stare off into space?
Answer: Psych doctoral student here. 

Unfortunately there isn't a whole lot of understanding around the mechanism of action of daydreaming (which I assume is what you're asking?). But when it comes to the brain, we SUCK at multitasking (we like to believe we can do it, but the brain cannot do two things simultaneously, it just very rapidly switches between actions). Think about reading a book; have you ever found yourself a page or two in without remembering what you read? Or maybe you were on autopilot when driving and can't remember how you got somewhere? It's basically the same thing, our subconscious thoughts came to a conscious level and we got distracted by them. It takes a lot of mental willpower to focus on a single task, and if we're bored, tired, stressed, etc... That's difficult to do. The previous mental states are also associated with lowered levels of excitatory neurotransmitters such as dopamine and norepinephrine so the brain becomes sluggish and stops focusing on tasks that require engaging the prefrontal cortex (executive functioning). 

TL;DR: We can't multitask well and we need "excited" chemicals to help us focus.

Question: Why isn't the for-profit business model of hospitals in the US under more fire than the healthcare system?
Answer: Even "nonprofit" hospitals are generally out to make a profit, or at least break even. The parent organization needs to be financially stable.

Question: What exactly is a watershed and how does it work? For instance, we live in the Chesapeake Bay Watershed area. I have attempted to read on the subject, and consider myself a smart gal, but this just confuses me all day.
Answer: Pick a spot on the ground. Imagine that a raindrop falls on that spot. Imagine that it doesn't soak in, but it runs downhill. Which way will it go? Trace its path. Eventually, it will flow into a stream. That stream will flow into a bigger stream, which will flow into a river, which may flow into a bigger river, and so on, which will eventually reach the sea. The last river will have a name; let's say it's the Mississippi. That means your original spot was part of the Mississippi watershed. Sometimes large watersheds are divided into smaller watersheds named after the various rivers that flow into it; for example, the Mississippi watershed may be divided into the Ohio watershed, the Missouri watershed, and so on.

Question: Why does the order in which you mix things together matter?
Answer: as a person who cooks for living, in your case you just hasnt mixed things enough in first case. Adding dry to wet makes mixing easier and faster as opposed way creates dry clumps, that require extra mixing. thats why dry to wet is preferred cause it makes things easier and faster.

Question: How do shows like DragonBall Z Abridged and Yugioh Abridged stay on Youtube without being copyright claimed?
Answer: They're works of parody. As such, if the creators were sued and fought back, they'd probably win under 'fair use,' which allows limited use of copyrighted material for things like commentary, criticism, reviewing, and parody.

Question: what kind of applications won't benefit from increased multi-thread performance?
Answer: One reason is if the application is primarily I/O bound. Adding more threads won't make your hard drive any faster.

Question: What is going on with Apple and the price fixing trial with the DoJ?
Answer: Here you go, this guy did a great job explaining it: _URL_0_

Question: How do people change their identity? eg. get new social security numbers fake deaths etc.
Answer: >  Fake deaths

That's easy, get someone to think a dead body is yours or disappear for a few years and someone will have you declared dead.  Common examples are place a similar sex/gender/aged dead body in your car and set it on fire.  If no one  is suspicious they won't go through getting a DNA test, or if it's burned enough they might not be able to.  Disappearing is even easier, just get-up walk out the door and never come back, don't use your credit cards, phone anything that can be traced back to you.  There are several cases of people disappearing and turning up years after they are declared dead.

 >  Change their identity

That's really hard.  You would have to steal someone else's identity.  Common methods where using someone's social security number that was about your age and dead.  Forging or getting copies of that persons birth certificate or ID to generate real actual ID's.  So you would take a birth certificate for John Doe and a NY state ID for John Doe that had your picture on it, and use that to get a new ID for John Doe in California.

The problem is that because there are a lot of crimes you can commit with a faked identity there are a lot of things in place to stop that.  Now there are computers that will list who is dead by Social Security numbers and cross checks for people getting new IDs and stuff.

Question: The IRA, The Real IRA, and why they exist.
Answer: Basically. British occupation. We wanted independence. Best we got was a divided Ireland. 26 counties in the Republic of Ireland. 6 in Northern Ireland. Depending on the year, There are many different forms of the IRA. From Wikipedia.

Earlier organisations

Society of United Irishmen (1791–1804)

Young Ireland (1839–1849)

Irish Republican Brotherhood (1858–1922)

Fenian Brotherhood (1858–1867)

Clan na Gael (1867–1922)

Easter Rising

Irish Citizen Army (1913–1947)

Irish Volunteers (1913–1919)

Cumann na mBan (1914–present)

Irish War of Independence

Irish Republican Army (Army of the Irish Republic) (1919–1922)  recognised by the First Dáil as the legitimate army of the Irish Republic

Irish Civil War

Anti-treaty Irish Republican Army (1922–1969)  the anti-treaty IRA which fought and lost the civil war and which thereafter refused to recognise either the Irish Free State or Northern Ireland

Later organisations

Saor Uladh (1950s) • Saor Éire (1967–1975)

Provisional IRA (1969–present) which broke from the OIRA in 1969 over the latter's failing to protect Catholic communities in Northern Ireland.

Official IRA (1969–present)  the remainder of the IRA after the 1969 split with the Provisionals; led by Cathal Goulding and primarily Marxist in its political orientation. It is now inactive in the military sense, while its political wing, Official Sinn Féin, became the Workers' Party of Ireland.

Irish National Liberation Army (1974–present)

Irish People's Liberation Organisation (1986–1992)

Continuity IRA (1986–present) broke from the PIRA in 1986 because the latter ended its policy on abstentionism (thus recognising the authority of the Republic of Ireland).

Real IRA (1997–present)  a 1997 breakaway from the PIRA consisting of members opposed to the peace process.

Óglaigh na hÉireann (Real IRA splinter group) (2006–present)


If you are really interested, Watch the Liam Neeson film Michael Collins. He was Director for Intelligence, helped bring the British to their knees. Later incarnations are/were less than noble.

Question: How does a Medical Examiner determine the Cause of Death?
Answer: Mostly by autopsy. Cutting the body open, looking for anything that looks wrong. Looking at the heart for signs of a clot, lungs for blockage etc. Blood tests are also taken to test for anything unusual like heart attack signs ( enzyme) or drink/ drugs. 

Everybody dies for the same reason, the heart stops, medical examiners job is to find out why it stops. 

Some trauma is easy to see, (loss of leg caused blood loss enough to stop heart) all to the tiny details as tiny bit of water in lungs or small damage to heart. 

If a person has a existing medical condition this will be explored and either ruled out or ruled in as the cause. 

(Hope that was 5 enough)

Edit, missing word

Question: Why Do we tend to panic more when running from a scary situation than walking from it?
Answer: I think you may have your causality backward.

You run because when you can't control your panic, and you walk when you can.  If the walking increase your panic, you would already be running.

Question: Why are bugs so good at getting in the house, but so bad at getting out?
Answer: If there are a lot of bugs outside only one has to find its way inside for you to notice. If there is one bug inside that bug specifically has to find its way outside for you to notice.

Question: If I fell through a cloud would I come out soaked or 'misted'?
Answer: Neither, when a cloud is on the ground it's fog.  When you walk in the fog you don't get that wet.  If you fall into a rain cloud you get wet, or a snow cloud you get snow on you, but a non-precipitating cloud won't get you that wet.

Question: California is getting very significant rain for the next days. Where I live(southern California), most of it goes to canals and straight into the pacific ocean, With that amount of water basically being wasted; why hasn't there been a system put in place to catch all of this run off??
Answer: There is. Scattered throughout the hills are a series of dams that turn the rivers -- nature's own water gathering system -- into man-made lakes.

Nearer the shore, the water is so spread out -- and the terrain so lacking in natural basins -- that it's just not cost-effective to build artificial lakes to gather and store it. (If water were worth as much as gold, that calculation would change.)

Question: what is it about the structure of vegetables that makes them so nutritious yet contain relatively few calories?
Answer: We cannot digest cellulose. That is the physical structural component of plants. Because we cannot digest it we cannot get nutritional value from it. We call it dietary fiber and it passes through our bodies mostly intact. We are able to digest other components of plants and so get many vitamins and such from them, but the sugars that make up their cellulose are locked away from us. 

This is perhaps the greatest proof that we are omnivores and not herbivores.

Question: Why Time Warner Cable customers can't access HBO Go (when Time Warner owns HBO)?
Answer: Time Warner owns HBO, but Time Warner [no longer owns](_URL_0_) Time Warner Cable.

HBO GO is offered free to cable providers who carry HBO. The main problem is that cable providers have to develop systems to authenticate customers and make sure they subscribe to HBO. Then they have to create links to HBO GOs site such that only HBO subscribers are allowed in.

Until your ISP/Cable provider has such systems in place (tested and verified by HBO), HBO GO will not be available to you.

IIRC, wholesale HBO costs around $8 or $9 per subscriber.

Question: If there is lead in solder are solder joints dangerous to touch?
Answer: No, it is not toxic to touch solid lead. Lead poisoning results from **ingestion**, **inhalation** or **dermal contact** (e.g. if you were working with organic lead compounds that were easily absorbed through the skin).

Question: How do cops detain and handcuff somebody with one arm?
Answer: They either:

* cuff their hand to their belt
* get a belly chain
* if they appear to be of little threat, let them go uncuffed

Question: With all the breakthroughts we've seen in cell phone and car batteries why hasn't the household batteries like AA, AAA, D's life been extended as well?
Answer: They use different chemistries. Your standard batteries are alkaline cells. They aren't that dangerous in the sense that they don't explode but because of that they are less energy dense. Most modern phones and electric cars use lithium ion cells. These are way more energy dense but have the tendency to become very hot or even explode when over discharged, punctured or short circuited. This isn't a problem because the devices they are used in have circuitry that closely monitors the battery and shuts off the device when something goes wrong. Lithium ion batteries are also more expensive than standard lithium batteries. Standard gas cars use a lead acid battery to start the motor and keep the lights on. While lead acid batteries are powerful they are also very heavy and big.

TL:DR different batteries have different trade offs

Question: Why are people Shy or not shy?
Answer: It's just a difference if how you approach situations. 

I've often been called shy when I'm first introduced to someone, but the thing most people fail to realize is that the reason I'm not more..."out there" is because I don't really speak unless I have something to say. Unless I'm continuing a conversation previous to the introduction, I will wait until more convenient time to join in the new conversation. 

I'm not shy; I just don't want to be in your face. It annoys me when people do it to me, so why would I do it to you?

Question: Ulster loyalism
Answer: They are basically people of the protestant faith who want to remain part of the UK as opposed to those of the catholic faith who want to be part of a united Ireland.

Question: How does the "neutral" wire work in cars?
Answer: In the car, you're dealing with DC, in the house it's AC. The wavy voltage you get in AC is the difference between the "live" and "neutral" lines, but importantly, neutral is not ground. It's usually relatively close, though. The earth line is the emergency exit for power when it's all gone wrong, and is very handy when you're dealing with quite a lot of power - the sort that gives shocks and causes damage to people if it's all going wrong. The power in your house can do that, and the power in your car doesn't. There's 2 exceptions - the starter motor and HID headlights, but for accessories - the radio and the radar detector, you're safe. It's only 12 volts and not a lot of current.

So, the power comes in from the red wire, the one you put the fuse on, and it goes out via the black wire, to the body of the car. The car body is connected to the negative terminal on the battery, so any bare metal on a car will work for the negative wire to make your circuit.

Question: Since energy can never be created nor destroyed, but only be transfered - then where did it come from in the first place?
Answer: Answer:
Absolutely, Positively no one knows, or even has the foggiest idea, if you did you would win every science prize till the end of time. we are pretty confidant the big bang created OUR universe, but that's a very small piece of the _URL_0_ would be like if you fed a goldfish and the gold fish wondered where the food came from.

Question: what's the difference in the technology between a pair of beats ear buds and a pair from gas station?
Answer: BeatsByDre spends millions on advertisement, that is about it. Beats is much more about image and a fashion statement than sound quality. I'm not saying Beats are terrible, just that you will get much better sound for your money with other brands.

Question: What exactly happens when you get that heart wrenching feeling in your chest, like when that Semi truck almost ran me off the road today
Answer: [Adrenaline baby](_URL_0_)



 > Adrenaline is a hormone produced by the adrenal glands during high stress or exciting situations. This powerful hormone is part of the human body's acute stress response system, also called the "fight or flight" response. It works by stimulating the heart rate, contracting blood vessels, and dilating air passages, all of which work to increase blood flow to the muscles and oxygen to the lungs. Additionally, it is used as a medical treatment for some potentially life-threatening conditions including anaphylactic shock. In the US, the medical community largely refers to this hormone as epinephrine, although the two terms may be used interchangeably.


 > The adrenal glands are found directly above the kidneys in the human body, and are roughly 3 inches (7.62 cm) in length. Adrenaline is one of several hormones produced by these glands. Along with norepinephrine and dopamine, it is a catecholamine, which is a group of hormones released in response to stress. These three hormones react with various body tissues, preparing the body to react physically to the stress causing situation.

Question: What is the deal with reddit and Wonderwall?
Answer: Today is going to be the day that someone'll spell it out for you
Right now you probably realize that I'm not gonna be that dude

Question: What happens to an unborn baby that is going to have a nut allergy (or any other type of allergy) when the mother consumes nuts?
Answer: It doesn't hurt the child because the mother is processing the food for the child.  You mostly want to avoid things that get into the blood or can be passed through the placenta to the baby and have a harmful impact (such as alcohol).  Studies have actually shown that mothers who eat nuts during pregnancy have children who are less likely to be allergic to nuts.

Question: What would it take to bring back the automobile industry in the United States? As in, the ending of outsourcing jobs overseas for vehicles.
Answer: US workers would have to be cost competitive with machines and foreign workers.

That's really the long and short of it.

Question: When an actor drops weight (like Chris Hemsworth, from "Thor" to "In the Heart of the Sea"), where does all the muscle go?
Answer: Most of the time it is lighting and camera tricks that make them look as big as they do.  Now that doesn't mean they don't have to put on size when playing certain roles it just means they don't put on as much as what it seems.  


As for your question, the body uses the muscle for energy same as fat in someone losing fat weight.  Scientifically it is breathed out after it makes the entire chemical breakdown.


  _URL_0_

Question: How does a computer ACTUALLY work? Like, how does it transfer, read, and display data and things.
Answer: Lets dive right into the magical land of data.

Whats the symbol for five? 5. Whats the symbol for ten? 10. But wait, isn't that the symbol for one and zero? Right, so in our numbering system, when we get to the number ten, we write the symbol for one and zero. There is no symbol for ten, we simply recycle the ones we already have. Because of this, we call our numbering system "base-ten", or "decimal". 

"Ones and zeros","true and false", and "on or off" are all terms you have probably heard before. What these all are referring to is a *different* kind of numbering system. For our decimal system, we write a '10' when we get to ten, but for binary, we write a '10' when we get to two. There is no symbol for two in binary, exactly how there is no symbol for ten in decimal. "On" or "off" simply refers to '1' or '0' in binary.

Just to make sure that makes sense (as its super important):

01 = one;

10 = two;

11 = three;

Make sense? Cool (if not google "binary").

Ok, now for something completely different, but related.

Theres something in computer theory called a "logic gate". It's a device. It has two inputs, and one output. The only input it accepts is "on" or "off", and the output is the same, "on" or "off". You might see the relation to binary.

A logic gates output is based on its input. An example of a logic gate is a "AND" gate. When both of the inputs are on, the output is on. Otherwise, the output is off. 

You still with me? Don't worry, the cool stuff is coming soon.

Another logic gate is the "NOT" gate. The NOT gate has one input. If the input is off, the output is on, and vice versa. The output is *not* the input. Get it? 

Now, if we put the input of a NOT gate on the output of an AND gate, we get a NAND gate. Creative, I know. We nerds don't get out much.  Anyways, try to figure out what the output would be for all the four different possible combinations of the two inputs for the NAND gate.

[Anyways, heres what a NAND gate looks like drawn.](_URL_0_) 

Now, you have probably heard of computer memory right? [**ta da!**](_URL_3_)

It's not going to make total sense at first, but that diagram shows a memory-holder-thingamajig. Look at it for a while and try to figure out what it does. Basically it holds a "bit" of memory. You could say that a bit is like one digit of a binary number. You line a bunch of these in a row, and you can start holding numbers.

But what do you *do* with those numbers?

This is where it gets cool. You do math with those numbers. This next device is called an "[*adder*](_URL_2_)". 

The gate on top is called an XOR gate, its output is on if only one of its inputs is on. If there both on or off, then the output is off. 

Now, make it a [little more complex](_URL_1_) and you can add multiple bits at the same time, by linking the last ones "Cout" to the next ones "Cin".

Cool, now we have a basic calculator. How can we turn this up to 11 and make a computer?

Code. 

Now, you know what data is, and so code is easy to explain. Its just data. Thats all it is. Really. 

The reason why its different then other data though, is because the CPU interprets it as *instructions.*

If we wanted to do math for example, and we got to decide the instruction definitions we could use a system like;

    00000001 = *add* a number to another number;

    00000010 = *subtract* a number from another number;

With this, we can set what logic gates are being used based on data. 

Now, real quick, memory is organized on a computer by something called memory addresses, basically they just allow the CPU to ask for memory at a specific location.
Generally speaking the addresses are sized by "bytes" which is just another word for "eight bits". So if we wanted to access memory location five or whatever we could store that as '00000101'.

Lets go back and add some more to our table;

00000011 = move this data into some location;

Cool, now we can say something like:

"add the number at location #5 in memory to the other number at location #7 in memory."

By breaking it down into:

    (add) (memory address #5) (memory address #7)

Which is really just

    00000001 00000101 00000111

Pretty sweet right?

But hold on, how does the CPU know where to get its instructions?

On the cpu, Theres a tiny amount of memory, it does various things, such as hold something called the "instruction pointer". The instruction pointer holds the address of the next instruction, and increments itself after every instruction. So basically, the cpu reads the instruction pointer, fetches the next instruction, does it, adds one to the instruction pointer, and then goes back to step one.

But what happens when it runs out of instructions?

Lets go back to our table. Last time, I promise:

 00000100 = set instruction pointer to address

Basically, all this instruction does is set the instruction pointer to a number. You ever wonder what an infinite loop is on a computer? Thats what happens when an instruction pointer is set to instructions that keep telling the instruction pointer to set itself to that same set of instructions.

Thats computers in a nutshell.

**tl;dr** I need to get laid.

Question: Why do doctors and dentists seem want to get patients out of the recovery room and home so quickly after a surgery?
Answer: Hospitals are not a place where you want to stay but need to stay. You're surrounded by sick people and the bacteria there are much more dangerous and immune than outside of hospitals. 
You want to get out of there as soon as possible. Sure it sucks to puke at home, but doing so at a hospital is of no advantage to you, since it's nothing a doctor can or needs to help you with.

An unnecessarily long stay also causes extra financial and time costs and takes up space that people in actual need could use.

Question: Why do people often lie for seemingly no reason at all?
Answer: This is difficult to answer with fact, and is more based in personal experience and observation. People with philosophy major/minors would be better suited to describe the more complex parts of the human for this one. However here is my 2 cents.   


As someone who is a compulsive liar it stemmed from childhood. Often I would get in far more trouble for telling the truth then I would for lying. Both long-run and immediate. Like many habits lying produces dopamine, causing me to feel rewarded for lying. However, guilt usually follows after. It's hard to break this habit as it makes me feel safe and incontrol of the situation while very rarely resulting in a bad outcome.  


Another part stems from our flight or fight response. Lying is the flight response kicking in.  Humans are very much animals when it comes to our instincts - we don't want to put ourselves in the way of harm. We view social situations in a lot of the same ways as we view danger and will act differently depending on the level of stress. Lying is a sense of control and lets us not be vulnerable.

Question: what are the meanings behind the " &  co.", "unlimited", "limited" "incorporated" etc. additions to different company names?
Answer: Some countries, and some states within countries, have requirements about naming companies which may require them to state the type of entity the company is.  

This is a holdover from a time when corporations (joint stock, limited liability companies) had to be chartered for a specific purpose.  They were not supposed to do anything outside of that chartered purpose.  That's where the use of "Limited", or the abbreviation "Ltd" arose.

Today in most parts of the world corporations are not limited.  They are typically organized with a charter that says they can engage in any activity their directors and shareholders decide they want to engage in.

These entities are usually identified as "Corporation", or "Incorporated", or the abbreviations "Corp" or "Inc".

There are a few other things you might see:

"LLC" - a Limited Liability Company, which works almost exactly like a corporation but has some different taxation rules.

"LLP" - a Limited Liability Partnership, which are common for things like legal and medical practices, and provide some insulation between the partners for the other partner's liabilities.

"Partners" or "Partnership" - a company owned by two or more people who jointly share the liabilities of the entity.

" &  Co" - Means "and company" (but in this case the word "company" is used like "we've got company over for dinner" not "that business is a company") usually indicates a family-owned or sole proprietor doing business with associates who don't share liability.  Same with " &  Sons" or " &  Daughters", etc.

Different countries often have different names and abbreviations for joint stock limited liability corporations.  Examples:

aG or GmbH:  Germany
Cia: Brazil
Cie, SA: France
plc: UK

Question: How are those giant prize winning vegetables, like the 150lb zucchini, grown?
Answer: they are purpose bred to be that large because competitions for large veggies exist. 

Vegetables dont have a very long lifespan, so if you are mindful, you can breed specific traits in plants pretty quickly. Those zucchini and the popular giant pumpkins have been selectively bred together for a few decades to be just really big over every other trait (like edibility)

And this is being done by more than one person, you can buy seeds from plants that are going to grow giant versions of the vegetable, and start breeding them yourself, but since its such a niche thing, just like niche dog breeds, its a small market.

pumpkin and zucchini and other vine-type squash plants are actually really easy to control the breeding because of the way their flowers are shaped, They have these really deep trumpet flowers that only open in the morning, so you just wait for the flower, pollinate by hand the flowers of plants you want to cross breed, snip off the flowers of ones you don't want, and then carefully tape up the flower you want to create your new vegetable with your crossbred seeds, so that bugs don't bring other pollen and pollinate with a plant you didn't intend.

Question: Why are Late Night Talk Shows so popular in America?
Answer: It's actually quite diminished and low in its popularity compared to the past. Big time down. 

In an effort to get more viewers though their marketing teams heavily utilize stuff like YouTube and the digital space to blast out content and stuff to attempt to get people to tune in. If your online a lot you see this, so it seems far more "popular" than it really is. The good, people are watching this digital best of content. The bad, they seriously still aren't tuneing in... because why watch live when you can just see the best of it the next morning easier?  

Tl;dr. Ratings are way down, their marketing teams fool you into thinking otherwise.

Question: How can dentists tell if you haven't been flossing?
Answer: One word: [Plaque!](_URL_0_)

This is a sort of biofilm (scale) that has been building up around your teeth's enamel. It's usually yellowish  &  brownish type of tartar. The wiki link I just gave you up there will explain it WAY better than I do.

Question: Can't remember what it's called
Answer: This is [the bandwagon fallacy](_URL_0_) in which someone holds an idea to be true/valid because a majority(sometimes perceived majority)of people feel the same way.  

Also, the idea that global warming *causes* tornadoes and other natural disasters is [the false cause fallacy](_URL_1_) in which one claims there is a *causal link* between variable A -- >  B.

Question: Other than making room for other patients, why don't dentists fix everything in one appointment?
Answer: You may try to find a different dentist. Mine, for example, will try to only schedule an appointment if she can preform two procedures during one appointment. Like cleaning and an exam, or a filling and x-rays, or some such like that.

Question: Why does the law never go after rappers who constantly talk about the illegal drugs they do in their songs?
Answer: > I am the Walrus

-John Lennon.


Not proof that John Lennon is actually a Walrus.

Question: Why do the fastest runners tend to be black?
Answer: A couple of speculative answers, in addition to /u/MrAloha808's point.

"Black" and "White" aren't really groups, as there's as much variation between as there is within. Nonetheless people with black skin outnumber people with white skin, so their best runners are recruited from a larger population.

Also, if you're using international athletics as a measure of running prowess, it's worth mentioning that many black athletes are from countries with higher extremes of poverty, meaning less access to other sports, such as sailing, polo and counter strike.

Question: Hostels. How they work and how they differ from hotels. Also why they are so popular in Europe?
Answer: They are very cheap hotels, usually with multiple beds in the same room.

The are popular in Europe, because combined with Europe's well developed mass transit system, it makes for a cheap and flexible way to travel.  Hostels typically exist in city centers where regular rooms are very expensive.

In the US, without the same sort of mass transit, this sort of travel requires a car.  With a car, you can sleep in it, stay at a campground, or simply drive to a cheaper hotel outside of the city, making hostels less useful.

Question: why do snakes slither instead of inching like a worm?
Answer: Because their physiology (body make-up) is completely different. Worms are invertebrates, meaning they don't possess a single bone in their body. Snakes are reptiles (belonging to the vertebrates). That means there are numerous evolutionary steps between them. IIRC, snakes do stretch their bodies a little but because of their spine, they have limitations on how much they can expand or shrink.

Question: For the theologians, how is the good and mercy of God visible in major disasters like the typhoon that kills thousands?
Answer: The Bible explains this in the Book of Job.  It is great literature.  It is one of the few books of the Bible written in verse and one of the few where God actually speaks.  And God is pissed off.  

Basically, God and Satan are considering Job, a good guy Greg.  And Satan bets God that if some disasters befall Job he'll turn into a Scumbag Steve.  God accepts the challenge and Satan does a number on Job.  Livestock, servants, children all dead;  Job gets physically sick.  Job's friends are all convinced that Job did something wrong to deserve it, but he didn't.  Nothing was his fault.  After all of this, Job never curses God.  All Job does is complain -- a lot.  Finally, after pages and pages of bitching, God is tired of hearing it and speaks out of a whirlwind and says, "“Who is this who darkens counsel by words without knowledge?  Gird up your loins now like a man, I will question you, and you shall answer Me."  Then, God goes on for pages and pages in the most scathing cross-examination in history.  The most insightful part, however, is when God tells Job this:

“The wings of the ostrich wave proudly,

But are her wings and pinions like the kindly stork’s?

For she leaves her eggs on the ground,

And warms them in the dust;

She forgets that a foot may crush them,

Or that a wild beast may break them.

She treats her young harshly, as though they were not hers;

Her labor is in vain, without concern,

Because God deprived her of wisdom,

And did not endow her with understanding.

When she lifts herself on high,

She scorns the horse and its rider."

So, the answer to OP's question, according to the Book of Job, is that bad things happen within the realm of God's mercy because there must be evil for there to be good, and evil exists as a way to enhance/test/demonstrate/make possible our goodness; and that we can never understand it better than this because God has deprived us of the necessary wisdom, for possession of that wisdom would make us the equivalent of God and we are not, by design.

Question: Why do male testicles sometimes retract up into the abdomen?
Answer: Testicles need to be kept at *exactly* the right temperature to make healthy sperm. Unfortunately, that temperature is colder than your body's natural temperature and is too specific to regulate normally. Thus, the balls moved out of your body to keep away from your heat, but they can be moved closer or further away depending on their needs.

As for the "Men were once women" thing, in the womb, boys develop ovaries first before they are converted into testacles and moved down. There's actually a genetic mutation which delays that transformation until *puberty,* meaning for about the first 12 years of your life, you look like a prepubescent girl in every way.

Question: I see flies and moths in my house all the time. Why don't I see a whole lot of dead insect bodies everywhere?
Answer: Spiders.

The house spiders that you share your space with are eating them, and the left over bits are broken down reasonably quickly by bacteria or chemical reactions and they turn to dust.

Question: How do the authorities have dental records to identify people?
Answer: The government does not have this information. If authorities believe that a missing person may be person X, they can request their dentist for the dental records, but until that request is made, the government doesn't have them.

Question: Why intervention is Libya considered a failure despite successfully saving human lives and toppling a brutal dictatorship?
Answer: Critics point to the emergence of a largely lawless Libya which is in the control of various militias. This had led to the state becoming a prime breeding ground for radical groups to base themselves out of as well as create a hub for the international trafficking of weapons.

Question: Why do I get motion sickness when I read in a car?
Answer: Your body tells your brain that you're moving. (Because of bumps, turns an such) But your brain tells you're still and reading a book. That makes you feel bad.

Question: WHy is it that if i smoke while i have a bad cough i stop coughing for a good 5-10 minutes?
Answer: tobacco cigs have chemicals in them that numb your throat, cannabis cigs don't have the chemicals that numb your throat.

Question: If shadows are the absence of light, why do you get different coloured shadows with different light sources?
Answer: A shadow is generally not the total absence of light. It is simply an area where there is less light because a light source has been blocked by something opaque.

Question: What is the difference between cabbage and lettuce?
Answer: The main difference between the two is that they are from different plant families. Cabbage is a leafy vegetable, from the 'Brassicacea' family, whereas Lettuce is from the 'Asteraceae' family. The difference can also be seen in nutritional values within each of them. Most lettuce types have less calories and more vitamin A and potassium than cabbage. Alternately, Cabbage has a lot more vitamin C and fibre than that of lettuce.

The differences are minute, but they are there.

Question: I'm having a lot of trouble wrapping my mind around the concept of 'Cinematic Excess'
Answer: (Disclaimer: I'm not a film major) My understanding from listening to friends is basically as follows:

When you go to the movies, you *need* a certain level of detail to understand it (e.g.: you need a main character, or a plot, and the scenes have to be shown in the right order).

But there are other details that you *don't* need to see (e.g.: the trees blowing in the breeze).

Now, while you don't *need* to see the trees or the rest of the garden, it *does* provide a richer, more engaging experience. 

Another method might be to have an image/sound that gets repeated over and over again throughout the movie. You don't *need* to see it more than once, but the repetition can be a clever technique. 

Or perhaps the scene switches from colour to black-and-white. Again, the colour palette makes no difference to the actual story, but it helps weave a compelling narrative.

Even the music soundtrack can be 'excess'. Often it has nothing to do with the story, but it still builds an emotional atmosphere that sucks you in.

Question: Being sued for money when you have none
Answer: First step is the court awards a judgment against you that says you owe the money.  It's good for 20 years and will show up on your credit report. What happens next is up to the creditor. If you have a bank account they can file a garnishment and take it. If you have a job they can garnish your wages (federal and state law limit this at 0 to 25% depending on the laws of your state. These filings cost the creditor money that the court usually let's them collect from you,  but only if you have something to take. 

Because the judgement is good for 20 years, often it just goes into a box. Every few years they'll pull your credit report to see if you have money yet. Then they can file things.

Finally even after 20 years they can renew a judgment for another 20. Again, this costs them money they can recover from you,  but only if you have it to take. 

So what happens is going to depend on who they think you are and how much money you owe. If it's alot of money - you file bankruptcy and that's the end of it.

Source- I'm a bill collector and i sue people

Question: how can small cellphone carriers (metropcs, criket, etc...) charge less for the "same" service?
Answer: It's because they rent the towers they use from the majors and do not have contractual subsidies for phone contracts that drive up costs. They also are not accountable for maintenance of the hardware and towers which keeps the costs lower.

Question: What's happening when I make that thunder noise inside my head?
Answer: What you hear is the sound of thee [tensor tympani muscle](_URL_0_) vibrating in response to being voluntarily tensed.

Question: How is the VR experience of a phone with an attachment like Galaxy S7 different from that of Occulus Rift?
Answer: There are several different aspects to this as of right now (early 2016) which may change in the future. The first is that phones don't have nearly as much processing power or storage space as a gaming PC, this means games are often short or re-use the same content throughout the game. Graphics are often simple and use low resolution textures, they also have poor batteries and can get hot quickly.

Secondly you then also have the screens used in these phones, the Oculus Rift can update the screen 90 times a second vs a phones 60. This many not sound like much but it makes a huge difference. Specifically the GearVR only displays an image for a fraction of a frame to avoid blur, so the higher the screens refresh rate = less noticeable flicker (think back to the days of old CRT tv's)

Lastly is cost, the target market for GearVR is more of a casual audience so the headset of often of lower quality in design and will have less features so that the manufacturers can sell it at a specific price point, the biggest drawback right now with the current generation of GearVR headsets is that there is no positional tracking. With an Oculus Rift or Vive the displays inside the headsets have been specifically made for VR, the optics have been paired perfectly to the displays and the whole unit is of much higher quality.

Please note that this answer is only applicable to current generation devices (Gear VR, Oculus Rift, HTC Vive, etc.), VR is probably the fastest introduction of a completely brand new technology I've ever seen so the landscape and direction VR takes will change very quickly and without warning, for all we know in a year things could be vastly different. 

A new generation of virtual reality headsets may very well be totally self contained and wireless, meaning you do not need a PC or a phone and that the 'computer' for the device is in the headset itself. This is, at present the most likely way vr will advance and become it's own medium and this would offer a middle-ground between 'GearVR' mobile Vr and PC vr.

Question: How does a U.S. Destroyer, a vessel equiped with advanced technological systems, that is supposed to engage in tactical naval warfare, collide with a cargo ship?
Answer: Massive and systemic watch-keeping failure on the part of the Naval Vessel's crew. Heads are going to roll here. Court-martials, possibly criminal-negligence charges. There is no excuse for this. None. 

Navy Ships have multiple people in the pilot house, lookouts all over the ship, people in CIC monitoring surface contacts. State of the art computer processors crunching enough data to take down 10's of targets at mach speeds. Able to scan the environment with different radar systems.

The Cargo ship had the right of way : 

 >  *Collision Regulations Rule 15: When two power-driven vessels are crossing, the vessel which has the other on the starboard side must give way and avoid crossing ahead of her.*

Navy ships also are required to have other vessels standoff outside their respective exclusion zones, to avoid [shit like this](_URL_0_) happening.

It's a complete breakdown of every single navigational procedure.

Question: Why sometimes when I sleep, in my dreams I try to get out of bed but my body refuse move, and gets harder to breathe but felt so real?
Answer: When you sleep your body turns off its motors so you don't act out your dreams. But sometimes your eyes wake up before the rest of your body has restarted its motors, so you cannot move, all you can do is stare ahead. Your dreams may continue at this point, though they will warp to adhere to the environment your eyes are looking at. It is normal to experience hallucinations at this point. It can be terrifying, particularly because you can't move, can't speak, and are stuck watching what might be horrifying hallucinations. If you fall back asleep after this you may have another, and another. In my experience, the terror grows with each episode; and with each episode, you may be left feeling more drained, making you terrified to go back to sleep, but so tired that you cannot help it.

Some people feel tightness in their chest like a great weight is resting upon them. You may hear what is going on around you, but those sounds may be warped in terrible ways (an alarm clock sound warped to sound like a screeching demon; music warped so that it sounds like it is underwater and out of tune).

The upside to these episodes is that they can lead to lucid dreaming, where you'll be entirely conscious of your dreams and be able to control each aspect. I had these episodes every day for a long time and during that time it taught me how to lucid dream, to where now it is just a normal part of my dreaming.

If you want to escape an episode try wiggling your toes and fingers. It can provide rapid relief. To prevent them, try sleeping on your back or covering your eyes when you sleep. You may still experience them when you eyes are covered, but they are forgettable with no visually distressing aspect.

You may find that these occur with much greater frequency during turbulent times in your life, times of great stress or trauma.

Question: Why do we clap our hands as an act of cheering?
Answer: There's no real reason really. We could have chosen any gesture to represent cheering such as snapping fingers or stomping feet.

However, clapping makes a lot of noise, doesn't require another surface nearby, and takes barely any technique to be effective. Some people just started doing it, and it caught on because there wasn't a need for something different.

Question: why does the human body need O2 in oder to get rid of Carbon? Why cant it just release the carbon as a gas or something?
Answer: The body doesn't just take an O2 and stick a carbon onto it.  The body has a very complicated set of chemical reactions, called the [Krebs cycle](_URL_0_), that it uses for energy.  The Krebs cycle is how your cells turn your food into usable energy to do stuff and stay alive.  It takes your food nutrients, like carbs and protein, and breaks them down to recharge a chemical called adenosine triphosphate (ATP).  ATP is a little messenger molecule that carries energy from place to place inside your cells.  When it runs out of energy it has to be recharged by another run through the Krebs cycle.

One of the steps in the Krebs cycle requires oxygen.  This is why you need to breathe in oxygen to live.  And in addition to ATP, there are two byproducts of the cycle: carbon dioxide, and water.  You get rid of the CO2 by exhaling it.

Question: Global Investment Banking
Answer: An investment bank is a financial institution that advises clients - mainly corporations - how to raise finance. Unlike retail banks, they do not hold deposits and so they aren't your regular high street bank (although many banks do both functions, which the European Union is looking to ring fence in the EU).

Investment bankers will be approached by a company that is looking to raise finance, which can be done through various ways. They are most commonly achieved through 'going public' (having an Initial Public Offering (IPO) for your shares for people to buy, instead of being a privately held company) or through bond issues (issuing corporate debt for clients to buy). The investment bank will facilitate these processes in order to allow clients to buy up whatever the corporation is offering. Sometimes the issue will be too big that it has to separated between separate investment banks, which is called syndication.

This is the very crux of investment banking in a very simplified manner. It also covers other aspects - such as mergers  &  acquisitions (M & A) - but that isn't so important.

As to 'global', then it really depends on where you are reading this from. If you are looking at programmes offered as graduate jobs, then the 'global' part may mean an emphasis aside from a specific market (i.e. 'domestic' investment banking, EMEA investment banking, etc.). In today's day and age, most financial markets are truly global and only in certain instances will you have territorial designations (asset managers may state their specialism as 'US Equities', for example).

Hope this helps! If I haven't explain it well, just ask.

Question: Why do different foods of the same mass have different amounts of calories?
Answer: Your body isn't converting all the mass of a burger into energy lol.

Only some of the energy bound up in food is utilized by your body, and **none** of it comes from converting mass into energy. Your body takes chemical potential energy from bonds between atoms in your food and (after generally storing that energy in different chemical bonds) utilizes it to drive all the processes that keep you alive. Much of the actual mass of the food is used as raw material to make structures your body needs like new cells etc. Some of that material is used wholesale because your body can't produce it on its own (like vitamins). Any mass your body can't use generally leaves the body with other waste.

Some food has more, and more energetic, bonds that your body is capable of converting into energy than others.

Question: How did the word 'radio' get mixed up in so maybe nuclear-related terms, "radioisotope", "radioactive", "radiologist". Does this imply some direct connection between electromagnetic waves and alpha/beta/gamma rays?
Answer: It is the other way around. Radiation or radio comes from the energy going radially out from the source. We use "radio" as a shorthand for electromagnetic radiation under 300GHz but there are lots of different radiation in addition to electromagnetic radiation. Gamma radiation is by the way also electromagnetic but in the 100EHz range. So there is a direct connection between radios and gamma rays and other forms of radiation.

Question: Why is hand sanitizer bad for the environment, but washing hands with soap is not?
Answer: It's not about the environment, it's about artificially selecting for tougher and tougher germs. It's evolution in action.

*And alcohol-based hand sanitizers are not the problem!* Alcohol kills germs just fine. Chlorine bleach, if you use a product based on that to sanitize your kitchen counter, kills germs just fine. Washing your hands with ordinary soap and water removes dirt--and a sufficient level of germs--just fine.

What's *NOT* fine are products with "anti-bacterial" additives like Triclosan. Such products *DON'T* kill all the germs when used...they only kill the weakest germs. The tougher germs survive, with their competition reduced, so they can multiply more. The tougher germs become a big problem "down the line" when the antibiotics we use to save people from infections become useless because of all the tougher germs we've helped to create.

Use the three products I mentioned earlier: alcohol-based hand sanitizers, chlorine bleach-based cleansers, and ordinary soap for hand washing. That's all you need to be using.

Question: Why is your throat so much more sore in the morning than any other time when you have a cold?
Answer: Because you've been lying down and not swallowing, the extra thick mucus your nose is producing during your cold has been dripping down your throat all night and irritating the crap out of it.

During the day you swallow, drink, and eat which helps clear the mucus out. You're probably also blowing your nose instead of just letting it drip down your throat.

Question: How does alcohol by volume work?
Answer: Depends on the volume. Two 5.2% abv beers at 12 fl oz a piece. Would equal one 10.4% ABV 12 fl oz beer. The volume is very important.

Question: How do companies discover that they've been hacked?
Answer: If a good hacker didn't leave a footprint then the company wouldn't know about the leak, and you would never hear about the company having a leak.

The Sony hack wasn't noticed by Sony.  It was the hacker group that publicly exposed the hack.

Question: How come not everybody sees the same colours when looking at Benhams Disk? [Repost]
Answer: You can't look at Benham's disk on a monitor and know what color you "would" see on the real thing, ironically enough for almost the exact same reason we see color there in the first place.

With a real-world disk, we see colors because some of our eye's receptors fire faster or linger longer than others - So a rapid white/black transition favors whatever receptors send the strongest signal back to the brain.  Think of it like a poll - "Hey red, what do you see?"  "Umm, something, I guess..." "Blue?  What about you?" "Yeah, something bluish" "Green?" "YES, oh wow, yes, dude, you have to see this, so greenly awesome, hey can we stop at Taco Bell later?".

Going back to monitors, you can't (necessarily) see the right color because it will depend less on your eye and more on which color of subpixels in your monitor has the longest retain time - Frequently red, for LCDs.

Question: why does my body decide that post shower, after I'm all nice and clean, is an excellent time to take a shit?
Answer: I know what you're talking about, but I think its a false equivalency. We don't really give much thought or complain during the day when we need to take a shit. But after showers, we put more significance into our shit urges, because we just showered, and remember them. There really isn't a correlation I don't think.

Question: What exactly does the UK mean by "killing encryption"?
Answer: All information transmitted over the Internet could be decrypted at government request.  Things like private Facebook groups, stored email, online transactions, that C4 you bought from a Tor store, you know, stuff terrorists might do.

It's government trying to harm everyone, not just the very unfortunate very few that happen to be injured in terrorist attacks.

Question: how does quartz work in watches/clocks?
Answer: The quartz itself is sliced into a very thin tuning fork shape, and is then connected to an oscillator circuit, which takes power from the battery, and starts (and keeps) the quartz vibrating.

The miniature quartz tuning fork vibrates at exactly 32,768 times per second (32,768 Hertz). Because of the nature of quartz, these vibration emit their own weak, but just as exact, electric pulses.

These electric pulses are then used as the basis of the timing of the watch.

32,768 may seem like a strange number to work with. However, computers (often used in these watches) work more easily with powers of 2, and [2^(15) is 32,768](_URL_0_)!

Question: Why do metals at room temperature feel colder to the touch than other materials?
Answer: Your body isn't feeling temperature it is feeling the amount of heat leaving your body.  There is a subtle distinction here. 
You have 3 variables, the amount of heat the metal can pull away from your body (heat capacity). The amount of heat the metal can store (heat capacity * density, keep in mind metals are heavy). The speed at which the metal can pull away this heat.  (thermal conductivity).  A material which does not conduct heat well will feel warm, because your hand heats up the surface and the heat stays at the surface.  This is why plastics feel warmer then metal. 

Metal has a lot of density, a lot of capacity to store heat, and a very good conductivity meaning it can pull the heat out of your body and into the metal very well and it can store a lot of heat.   This is also why different metals feel different temperatures at room temperature. 

Not explaining the science:
Metal pulls heat out of your body faster then plastic.

Question: Why do non-English speaking countries have so much English on their packaging and marketing?
Answer: English-speaking countries are so economically powerful, mainly through influence of the United States, that most countries include English on their products so that tourists or international customers can read them.

Interestingly the dominance of English in international business is so great that if someone is going to learn a second language in order to do business overseas it will almost certainly be English. The result is that English is an expected common skill which only reinforces its dominance. For example someone from Germany doing business with someone from France will likely result in them speaking to each other in English, as the German probably doesn't know French and the Frenchman probably doesn't know German, but both likely understand English to some extent.

So when a company is considering what to put on their package to make it accessible to non-native speakers it will almost always be English.

Question: If it's harder to hear as altitude increases (Example: On a plane), does playing music through headphones louder than you normally would so you can hear it better damage your ears as much as playing music that loud when you can hear fine?
Answer: if your thinking specifically on a plane, it is pressurised to 1800 - 2400 metres which although Alpine sort of levels I would think it wouldn't be enough to change noticeably. I know what you mean though about playing loud, I have always attributed it to the constant plane noise which you get used to but is surprisingly loud along with all the other distractions. For example this weekend I had a hard time following a movie on a plane, which is perhaps due to the small screen size, poorer quality and background stimuli?

I think it would be reasonable to assume that playing your iPod very loud in your ears will be enough to damage them the same as on the ground as the same dBs go through your ears although i doubt in flight entertainment systems go that high because of this?

On the top of Everest though I wouldn't even guess

Question: Why is it that whenever I'm nervous, I always tend to need to take a piss/dump?
Answer: I have no idea, but whenever I enter a library or a bookstore I immediately need to go and I love books.

Question: Why do most porn sites not use HTTPS?
Answer: If you were to submit your credit card information on the internet, the information needs to go from your computer to the server.  What hackers can do is to "sniff" the traffic, and decode the information that is sent, consequently getting your credit card information.

What HTTPS does is encrypt the information on the computer, send it, and then decrypt it on the server.  So even if hackers get a hold of the traffic, they have no way of decrypting it.  This is awesome, but requires a little bit of extra cost (development and encryption certificate).    

Note that this does nothing in protecting your identity.  Your IP address is still sent as is.  Most porn sites are simply view-only, so users are not actually submitting any private information, therefore, no need to implement HTTPS (SSL).  However, most paid sites where you have to pay for membership, I would imagine do have HTTPS protocol installed.

Question: If various species naturally went extinct even without human influence in the past, why is it still important that species are going extinct? Is it not just nature taking its course?
Answer: Regions in which humans have developed habitats saw a massive increase in the rate at which megafauna (i.e. large animals) started going extinct. This is WAY higher than what ecologists refer to as the background rate of extinction (the rate at which species went extinct before human influence, with a few special exceptions). Mass extinctions that don't open up very many new niches (fancy word for "somewhere new species can evolve"), such as the ones that we are causing, only hurt biodiversity, and imbalance ecosystems. And whether you realize it or not, we rely very heavily on the things mother nature does for us in order to get by.

Question: Why are valve amps so much more powerful and louder than solid state amps with the same wattage?
Answer: Valve amps produce a subjectively pleasing sound when they are driven past their "clean" limits. Among other reasons, they tend to distort (and generally reach limits) in a more gradual way than solid state amps. 

So first off, you're intentionally exceeding the limits whereas you're staying within the limits of a solid state amp and using some separate function to create the "overdrive" or "distortion" you're looking for (if you want any at all). A 50 watt tube amp is pushed to, or beyond, 50 watts just to get a pleasing overdrive sound. A 50 watt solid state amp is always kept below, say, 45 watts to avoid its less-desirable overdrive sound.

Secondly, the tube amp creates distortion sooner due to its "less perfect" operation, for a number of reasons. This results in a "clean" power rating that occurs earlier and below the absolute limits of the amplifier.

With a solid state amp capable of outputting 8 volts into an 8 ohm speaker, that creates 1 amp of current and 8 watts of power. But the "clean" sine wave contains less energy, in the 6ish volt average range, because a natural "clean" sine wave sound is not maximum power all the time, it's a smooth shape. Distorting the hell out of the signal, outputting a square wave, and therefore driving max power all the time time, can push output to that 8 watt physical limit. 

But a tube amp which can output 8 watts without distortion could perhaps keep pushing to 10 volts and 11ish watts... just not cleanly. The limit of its undistorted operation came way before the absolute physical limits of its operation. So when you do overdrive it and push the maximum physical limits, the power is higher than you might expect from its rated output. Again, this is because its rated "clean" output is created by a number of limitations other than absolute power supply/peak output limitations.

Question: Why do some seniors have a hard time learning basic computer skills even though it seems very intuitive to most people?
Answer: Take a field you're inexperienced in. Let's say baseball. 

A professional baseball player says, "Swing the bat like this." And he shows you how.

So you do the same. But then you mess up on the next swing. You forgot all his talking points/mechanical error/missed something he said. 

So in the end you couldn't swing the bat very well. 

Then you ask, "Why swing the bat in the first place? I don't even like baseball." So you put the bat down.

This is what it is like for seniors. It doesn't matter as much to them, and they didn't grow up into computers and iPhones and such.

Question: Why is there a little wall in the gas container of a lighter?
Answer: A longer, thinner cylinder is stronger than a shorter, fatter one.  Alas, the short, fat shape is more desirable in a lighter.  The result is that a long, thin cylinder is folded in half to get the desired strength in the desired shape.

Question: How inheritances work and why people covet them so much?
Answer: How they work: Relatives leave you money in their will and when they die you inherit that money

Why they're coveted: Free money

Question: In our dreams/nightmares, what in the brain is writing the events that are happening?
Answer: In psychology, there are several different perspectives on dreams, and there is still no clear answer as to why they happen and what their purpose is.

Freud believed that they were a window into the subconscious.  This idea has merit but places too much inherent meaning on dreams.

A more popular and modern theory is the activation-synthesis theory.  Basically, this theory suggests that while you're sleeping, there's an electrical frenzy going on in your brain while you process the day's memories, compare them to other memories, file them away, reinforce important information, etc.

Basically, your brain is doing a whole bunch of maintenance work while you're sleeping.

And the prefrontal cortex - the area of the brain that generates consciousness while you're awake - has no immediate job while you're sleeping, so it picks up on random bits and pieces of information and ties them together into random storylines.  Some say this is your prefrontal cortex "warming up" for another day of processing reality, and some say this is just a side effect of the way the human brain is set up.

In accordance with this theory, dreams can sometimes be subconscious messages - as a particularly strong idea in your brain is much more likely to manifest in dreams.  On the flipside, dreams are also often totally random and meaningless.

Question: How does the nonprofit tobacco control organization known as Truth Initiative have a revenue of more then $957 million?
Answer: Oh, the tobacco industry pays for them to advertise against tobacco. Ironic

In the 1950s, there were the first studies coming out that stated tobacco is quite bad for your health. Over the next half century, this fact became more widely known and the first lawsuits against tobacco companies came up. In the 1990s, this climaxed, the vast majority of states sued the tobacco industry, claiming their suppression of the health risks of tobacco if they knew about it or negligence to research a product if they didn't costed the states lots of money in public medical care bills.

This resulted in a little something called the Master Settlement Agreement, which resulted in many things, including that the states medical bills being paid by the tobacco companies and the tobacco industry would fund a non-profit to combat smoking, particularly youth smoking. 

This organization is known as the Truth Initiative. All in all, the tobacco companies were forced to pay 200 billion for 25 years after the lawsuit, and more for longer. 

900 million is their assets, not revenue. They still make a good amount off this lawsuit though.

Question: What makes you so sleepy after a heavy meal?
Answer: It's all about blood flow; blood, after a heavy meal, is directed towards the stomach to help aid the process of digestion.  In this, blood is taken away from the parts of your body that make it "feel awake."

Question: Why do guitars have 6 strings? Wouldn't it be better if they had 5 because we have 5 fingers?
Answer: It has nothing to do with number of Fingers, you can use different methods of strumming and picking that are way more efficient than assigning one string to each finger. Its more a matter of Sound, the more strings you have, the higher the amount of notes when you play a chord.

Or since you thought about picking it seemed: the more strings on a Guitar the broader the range of notes you can use in a Melody

Question: why we can't see the streak of the Milky Way the way in cameras capture it?
Answer: Light pollution.  

If there's too much ambient light in the atmosphere, the stars aren't as easily seen.  

When people take those awesome shots of the milky way, they're either in *very* isolated places, the picture was edited to make the stars more visible, or both.  

I live in a very rural area, and on a clear night I can still only *just barely* make out the milky way.

Question: how is the common cold still a thing?
Answer: For one, the cold virus mutates constantly. To come up with any sort of cure/vaccine would require a lot more work than it would for other diseases. Considering that the cold is rarely a deadly or debilitating disease, the amount of research that would be needed to eradicate it would be a huge waste of money.

Question: What is happening in Venezuela?
Answer: I already answered this on an AMA Request

 >  I am a protester living in Margarita Island, Venezuela. Although I have not been involved in so much in the protest because I'm 13 years old and my parents don't let me protest because of the dangerous situations, I will kindly answer your questions. If you want someone with more experience on the protests I'll make my best to contact anyone of the guys that have been for more that 4 days straight without sleep protesting on the streets.


 >  * What is the current situation?


 >  Right now there are protest in almost every city of Venezuela. Yesterday, there were more that 40,000 protesters in one of the major plazas of Caracas. The protesters are mostly university students and middle class people. National Guards are trying to suppress the protest by violent ways, while the protesters are trying to keep it a peaceful and bullet-free protest.


 > * What sparked the protests?


 >  Every Venezuelan had been living awfully for the past years so that was really igniting the flame but the final spark was caused because the students were protesting against the violence the February 12th, which is the International Youth Day and a National guard killed a University student. That was the spark that made all the students from all around Venezuela (and not just students, every kinds of people) go to the streets and protest.


 > * Is there violence? (and if so how extreme)


 > The protesters were trying to keep it peaceful and some radical oppositionists were being violent, but in the past 3-2 days, violence from both sides has increased. The people are getting angrier and more violent which is causing them to burn cars, throw rocks at police officers, burn the streets etc.  The past 2 days, there's been a lot of tanks on the streets.  [This Instagram page](_URL_0_) is osting pictures about the destruction happening here.  The National Guards have thrown Gas Bombs to the protesters. You might want to notice that the only way to hear about this is by actually seeing it, since the Government is banning every news about what's happening in Venezuela and the only news report is the Government-owned TV channels. Luckily not many people in Venezuela know what Reddit is, so this will probably not get found by the Government.


 > * Are we likely to see the government being overthrown?


 > Honestly, I don't know. Why? Because Venezuela is a country where the majority is the low-class, poor people and the only ones that are protesting is the middle-class. The only way that we overthrow the Government is that the low-class people are willing to go kill the Guards and fight a violent revolution against the Government. This is not going anywhere as a pacific revolution.


 > * Is there anything you'd like to say to the world?


 > Yes. Help spread the word. Help by telling everyone about this. Maybe they can ban news channels but they cannot ban our words, they cannot ban the social media. Post about this on Facebook, Reddit, Twitter, everything. I will thank you very much if you do this.


 >  **Someone made a really great video about this** _URL_1_

Question: How do collision prevention systems on cars work?
Answer: Usually, there is an IR range finder, which attempts to find how far from the nearest forward object you are. The car takes this distance, runs a calculation based on the current velocity (and maybe more variables, like road wetness, if you can be bothered) to determine the minimum stopping distance. The system will do this kind of math quite frequently (probably several dozen times a second), in order to determine if the object in front of you is actually getting closer (eg: not the bumper of the car in front of you, who is safely ahead of you and travelling at a matched pace, or relatively close velocity).

Should it be determined that the distance between you and the object is falling fast enough (eg: it is a stationary wall, or someone slamming their brakes), if the minimum stopping distance at your current conditions is within X% of the distance of the object, then your car will attempt to stop automatically.

Question: What is the difference between depression as a mental disorder and depression as a state or mood? How can one know which one he has and how severe it is?
Answer: Depression is a mood. We all go through it at one time or another. Basically it is a deep and overwhelming sadness. Where depression becomes a mental disorder is when someone suffers from chronic depression. When someone suffers from chronic depression there is a root cause of either a chemical imbalance or an emotional trauma that is so deep embedded in the person's psyche that subconsciously they are always feeling depression.

Ex- When you feel a great loss(someone passing or moving away) it is normal to feel depressed. You are deeply and overwhelmingly saddened by it and it temporarily effects your normal life and mood. However, eventually you surpass it. Chronic depression as a mental disorder is when you have nothing to feel so sadly about yet can't move on to other emotions. It effects your normal life and makes everything difficult. Anti-depressants are prescribed to shut off the receptors for the chemicals your body is releasing if a psychological/traumatic issue (supressed memories of being assaulted or having poor emotional maturity) can't be found or treated with therapy.

Question: Why is American Express widely not accepted at many retail stores?
Answer: Merchants have to pay more to accept American Express. While they may only pay 2%-3% for that Visa purchase you made, it would be closer to 5% for Amex.

Question: Why is breathing in faster than breathing out?
Answer: This might be a better fit for /r/answers but there is some physiology involved in your answer that might be good for eli5. 

Imagine you had a straw that you could suck water out of a glass with but you can only suck, you can't blow into the straw. You can very quickly pull water through the straw by sucking harder. But the only way to get water to back into the glass is to take your mouth off the straw and let gravity pull it back down the straw. So no matter how quickly you can get the water up the straw, you can't make it go back down any quicker. It's kind of like being able to pull something, but not being able to push it. You can always pull faster, but if you can't push it, you have less control over how fast it's pushed. 

That's the simple explanation. (note this is unconscious breathing and you can both push and pull with your diaphragm otherwise)

The basic answer is that when we breath in we are using a muscle to pull the diaphragm down. When we breath out we aren't using a muscle to move the diaphragm; it's the tension of the diaphragm that pulls it back to it's starting position. This is the way we naturally breath when we aren't thinking about it. You can take direct control of your diaphragm though and breath however you want both pushing and pulling, but that takes concentration and uses more energy than the natural unconscious breathing. 

So breathing in, you tense a muscle, it pulls down on the diaphragm which reduces pressure in the lungs causing air to be drawn in. And breathing out you relax that muscle, and the natural tension of the diaphragm pulls it back up, increasing pressure in the lungs and forcing the air back out. 


Also you can try to consciously breath in slow and exhale fast, and you will start to feel the muscles becoming a little uncomfortable because it requires much more work doing it like that than the natural way.

Question: What's up with sloths?
Answer: They just chill up in trees away from most predators that would otherwise be able to hunt them. By being super lazy, they don't use as much energy, so they don't have to process as much food. They only need to leave their tree every week or so to poop. As long as they have a readily available food source that they don't have to chase after, being lazily slow isn't really a disadvantage given their mode of avoiding predators.

Question: Why are there always sales just before the financial year ends?
Answer: In ye olden days of business, stores would keep a ledger of their sales. Until they turned a profit, all sales were written down in red ink. Around the fourth quarter of the year when the Holidays were fast approaching, they'd start to turn a profit and write their numbers down in black ink. Hence the terms "have red in my ledger" and "Black Friday". Many stores around this time are trying to do three things:

1) Get as far into the black as possible to cover bonuses, sales targets, surplus capital etc.

2) Get rid of excess and/or outdated stock quickly and cheaply, to make way for new products.

3) Land new customers who otherwise haven't or wouldn't typically shop at said retailer.

Question: Why are batteries (Such as AA, AAA, D, ect.) so expensive?
Answer: Because people need them and will pay the prices charged. The price has stabilized at the highest point people will accept.

Question: How come people are not experiencing discomfort during highspeed train rides?
Answer: These high speed trains accelerate quickly, but not that quickly.

I don't know about the Japanese Maglev but the German one named 'Transrapid' had a maximum acceleration of 1.3 m/s² which is faster than normal trains but not really much different from acceleration experienced in cars.

The German ICE highspeed train has a maximum acceleration of 0.71 m/s².

By comparison 9.8 m/s² is 1G and humans can survive up to 3G (29 m/s²) for durations over 25 seconds just fine without special equipment. You would hard poressed to find any vehicle that actually accelerates so much for so long because after accelerating for 25 seconds at 3G you have already broken the soundbarrier.

The important thing for the comfort of human passenger is not really acceleration (which is the rate of change of the speed) but the rate of change of acceleration itself. As long as that is kept low enough you will not even stumble. The direction of down may seemingly change for you a bit as the floor seems to tilt and you may feel slightly heavier as if going up in a fast elevator but that is it. Once the vehicle you are in travels at a constant speed you won't be able to tell any difference to standing still as long as you don't look outside.

Question: How to detox from alcohol
Answer: Long term alcoholics can suffer delirium tremens (known as the 'DTs' or the 'shakes') if they withdraw suddenly from alcohol and this can be serious enough to lead to death if not treated properly.

However, roughly half of alcoholics who stop alcohol intake will not have any negative physical effects and only a tiny proportion will suffer severe delirium tremens. 

So the best way to detox is to stop completely, then seek medical attention if you start having severe withdrawal symptoms.

Otherwise, follow a schema similar to the detox from drugs like Paxil, where people drop their dose by 10% of their original intake, every month (so if you drink ten beers a day, drop to 9 beers a day for the next month, then 8 beers a day the month after that, etc).

Question: Why does my head hurt when I get a headache?
Answer: It depends on what is causing your headache. Stress headaches, for example, can be caused by excessive tension in the muscles around the head. Many headaches are generally thought to be the result of the blood vessels surrounding your brain either opening up (dilating) or clamping down (constricting). These actions can cause pain receptors above your brain to be triggered. Newer theories suggest that chemicals in your brain (neurotransmitters) are a more significant part of the pain of a headache. Basically, there is no real "pain" being caused in your brain, it's just the result of areas in your brain being triggered that normally acknowledge pain occurring -- kinda like a sensor that is malfunctioning. In reality, it's probably some combination of the two.

Question: How do blisters form? And what is the purpose of the liquid inside of the blister?
Answer: If you were 5, I'd explain: "Blisters are nature's band aid."  They form to protect the underlying layers of skin from an irritant.  The reason people will tell you to never pop a blister is because the fluid within it is sterile.  Not only that, but our outer layer of skin is our "first line of defense" against pathogens. When you pop the blister, you break that line of defense and release the protective sterile fluid - leaving the underlying layers susceptible to infection.

Question: Why does the US have so many mattress stores?
Answer: That's like asking why there are so many brands of toilet paper. Given the sheer number of people who use them, multiplied by how often you replace them,  there is definitely room for profit. Also mattresses have a very high profit margin. They are essentially cloth, padding, and a small amount of metal and wood, sold for hundreds if not thousands of dollars.

Question: How 'deep' are tattoos?
Answer: Well, Lets say it like this.  I have a full sleeve, with full color, and very little "exposed" skin.  I had someone slice my arm up with a garden rake, to the point I needed 3 stitches, and you can't even tell I had gotten hit.  Granted, it depends on how heavy handed the artist is, and how good he is at his craft, but you should be able to get a pretty decent scrape, and not have the tattoo be screwed up.

Question: If the USA is at risk of hitting the debt ceiling, why aren't they taking it more seriously? Why aren't the branches being redesigned to be more efficient?
Answer: Because the "ceiling" is a moving target and the war between efficiency and excess is constant.

Question: Why do computers need to restart after updating?
Answer: Some times updates need to modify system files that are currently in use by the OS. In those cases, the system will reboot, thus "unlocking" those files, and apply the changes during the boot sequence, before they get used again.

Question: Why do I feel like I haven't really slept if I have vivid dreams during the night?
Answer: It's not that the vivid dreams make you tired, it's the fact that you are waking up during a dream - waking out of REM sleep tends to leave you a bit groggy. Most of the dreams during the night you don't remember, which explains why this happens only when you remember the dream.

Question: Explain the argument that the color pink doesn't really exist.
Answer: A color is a certain wavelength of  electromagnetic radiation. The "color" pink does not appear on the electromagnetic spectrum. Instead, it is how we perceive a certain combination of wavelengths, and therefore itself not a cookie.

Of course, this is all just arguing semantics. As far as anyone in the real world is concerned, pink is a color

Question: The right to abolish government
Answer: You're right, it isn't.  The Declaration holds no rights for Americans; those are found in the Constitution.

Question: Why is it that when people in very prestigious positions lose their jobs, they have to tender a resignation, but in everyday jobs, you just get fired?
Answer: Most jobs in the USA are at-will; this means that either side can terminate the relationship at any time.  You can quit whenever, and you can be fired whenever, for nearly any reason or no reason.

Most upper management positions, however, are on contract.  This means that the employee and the company sign an agreement that the person can only be fired for certain reasons.  If there's disagreement over those reasons, a firing might lead to a lawsuit.

So instead, the organization and the employee negotiate an end to the contract.  If they agree, the employee resigns and agrees not to sue for termination of the contract.

Question: How do computer companies such as HP and Dell load all that bloatware onto their new computers as a large scale operation?
Answer: They make OEM versions of operating systems, meaning they're baked right into the install media

Question: Why is it in companies like Twitter's interests to allow other people to produce clients like Tweebot? Wouldn't it be better for them to allow only their own app?
Answer: People like choice. If Tweetbot can provide a better Twitter client, then Twitter is able to get more users. More users means more money, and more money is the meaning of life.

Question: Why can't you put a cast on a horse's leg instead of killing it if it breaks it's leg?
Answer: Horse limbs are quite complicated anatomically.  They also do not tolerate casts in the manner a person can.  Broken legs in horses would also require a body sling to reduce the weight on the injured limb.  This requires very intense care as well as cost.

Question: why is alcohol accepted in many places where Cannabis is not?
Answer: Man... I want to know this one too!

As far as I understand, it’s all about marketing.

There’s a great episode of Stuff You Should Know that touches on this topic... I think it’s called ‘How marijuana works’.

Question: How to people string up these super long zip lines?
Answer: One method is to have the high point tied off and then you toss it down and drag it out to the low point. The other would be to tie off the low point and then have a free climber carry the high point up to the higher tie point. 

Shooting them with some kind of grappling hook gun is common in movies, but not in real life.

Question: How does having sickle cell protect against malaria?
Answer: We don't know exactly, but it has something do do with the fact that the Malaria parasite lives in the red blood cells for part of their development. 

There are different theories, but they basically come down to one of two things:

* Either the red blood cells of people with sickle-cell disease are just more difficult for the parasites to live in.
* Or the red blood cells are more sensitive so that the parasites damage them and the body recognizes them as defective and recycles them before the parasites can complete their development.

Question: Whats happening in the brain that allows me to instantly recognize that song i hate on the radio and scramble to change the station? why can't shazam or sound hound work that fast?
Answer: The difference between something like Shazam and you is that Shazam is browsing through a library of songs that is over 11 million deep.  assuming each song is 3 minutes on average, that's over 64 years of continuous music.  Quite literally, you would die before you could listen to every song Shazam has to browse through.

You, on the other hand, are listening to a radio station that maybe has a few hundred songs going at the same time.  When you hear a song come on, you don't have to wonder if it's a gospel hymn from the 30's, you know that it's the same song they've been playing over and over for weeks.  

As for a device to block songs you hate, most internet radio services like Pandora or Spotify allow you to flag songs you don't like and they won't pop up again.

Question: Why didn't countries simply adopt Nazi Germany's weapons after the war
Answer: Weapons technology is constantly advancing. To adopt even an existing weapon for yourself requires redesigning your factories, storage, distribution, etc. so it's not something to be undertaken lightly. Accordingly, it made much more for sense for the Allies to study German weapons and introduce advanced weapons, rather than take a modestly decreased amount of effort to introduce weapons that would soon be out of date.

Keep in mind that the part of German factories not destroyed in the war were deliberately dismantled or sabotaged by the Allies soon after.

Question: How is Morgan Freeman's voice so 'compelling' and 'powerful'? And what can one do to learn to have an authoritative voice?
Answer: He has a deep (low) voice, which is relatively difficult to develop.  Far easier to develop is his manner of speaking, which is slow and distinct.  He pronounces each word in sequence rather than slurring them together and pauses for emphasis where needed.  The impression such speech gives is that your words are considered - that your thoughts are complete before the sentence begins rather than running along apace with it.

In a sense, it's *silence* that gives the sense of authority.  The boss isn't the one who does the talking - they're the one who talks *last*.  Once they've talked, there's nothing left to say.

Question: How does UV light cause colors to fade like flags outdoors. Also why does it happen with colors like red?
Answer: The dyes in the flags are made of chemicals, and UV light causes these chemicals to degrade into colorless ones. Each dye has a different chemical makeup, so some dyes, like red, degrade quickly into white, while others, like blue, just turn yellow

Question: how does smell stick to clothes?
Answer: Smell is stuff - little bits of it. So...your clothes capture said little bits of stuff within the fabric.

Question: Why does the House "always win" in gambling?
Answer: The odds of winning any gambling are set out so the house always has an advantage. 

This is usually just a few points of a percentage (0.verylittle) but over tens of millions of dollars pouring through a casino, this leads to millions in profit. You basically have like a 49% chance of winning, so over thousands of plays, the casino ALWAYS ends up ahead.

Even professional gamblers, who earn their living my playing poker or blackjack, games they can manipulate, only manage to get to 51% or 52% win rate, however they make their money by betting high when they know they a higher than average chance of winning

Question: Why is glass so inert to acids?
Answer: Dat silicon dioxide. Acids react by having a weakly held hydrogen that the other part of the molecule doesn't care for much, and would really rather have a metal in its place, as metals are much more likely to give off outer electrons to a non-metal than hydrogen is.

Silicon dioxide, however, is already in a really good place with its electrons, so the acid doesn't have the necessary pull to substitute either the Silicon or oxygen for its hydrogen.

Question: Why can we use computers to simulate humans visually, but not auditorily? I don't get why we can create amazing animated characters, but still need meatbags to do the voices, even though video is more complex than audio.
Answer: I had a nice long comment composed but reddit's servers crashed and ate it.

Basically, our visual perceptions are more forgiving than our aural ones. We're used to taking simple line drawings and being like, "Okay, that's a face, I can roll with this." Auditory errors (or even just simplifications) strike us as not-real in a way that animation just doesn't.

Also, human language is incredibly subtle and complex and conveys so much more than just information--emotion, tension, and mood all come out of voices. How do you code for that? Human speech is an art form. It's multi-layered. It is, weirdly, more than the sum of its parts. It resists being broken down and reassembled in a way that visual reality just doesn't, for whatever reason.

Creating a "bank" of human words and phonemes that could be altered or combined into an approximation of "human speech" is incredibly time consuming and difficult. Anyone who has messed around with Siri knows this. True, bots have two different major processing problems to tackle (responding meaningfully to questions as well as sounding understandably human), but the basic principle applies. Most computer-speaking programs that I know don't tackle things at the word level, instead, they break a language into phonemes, and then they can analyze written words and break it into phoneme and combine the phonemes to speak those words out loud (this is why GPS devices often mispronounce proper names of streets). It's a ridiculously complex processing task that, as far as I know, computers just aren't good at yet.

A non-movie application of this is AAC devices, like what Stephen Hawking uses. Stephen Hawking purposefully uses, if not super-old software, a super-old voice sample, which is why his voice sounds so robotic. There's been advances over the years, but really, if you're an AAC user, you probably have maybe six voices in your device to choose from (a couple of males, a couple of females, an English accent, an American accent, and so on). And all of those voices, while sounding more human than Mr. Hawking's, are still recognizably robotic. I know at least one researcher is looking into taking audio samples from AAC users (who are often not totally mute, but can make sounds or individual syllables if asked, they just can't manage words/sentences) and mixing them in with the stock voice phonemes to create an individual voice for an individual user, and make that voice sound like theirs. Lots of AAC users would much rather sound like themselves than some bland English woman. But the technology is still years away.

Also, frankly, recording voices is just easier, more fun, and less time consuming.

Question: Why do you get veinier when you work out?
Answer: When ya run around or workout, your cells need more energy to keep going at the heightened rate. That means your heart has to start pumping faster, and 'cos your body's doing more work, you get hot. When you get hot, your body has a few ways of cooling you down, like sweating, or hairs standing up. One of these ways is to raise the veins slightly in your skin so they're closer to the air, and can get rid of the heat easier. As the nice man below said, "vasodilation" or widening of the veins, also occurs, to help let the blood flow faster and easier, which helps add to the illusion of them being about to burst out. 

Correct any mistakes, I'm basing this on GCSE biology, and it's not recent either.

Question: If I open a can of Coke while skydiving, does the liquid stay in the can?
Answer: The ISS, along with everything and everyone in it, is falling freely towards earth at all times. Thus, the situation on the ISS is analogous to your question, without all the side effects of atmospheric drag.  
There are a few really cool videos made by the crew of the ISS that show how things behave in free fall. 

[This](_URL_0_) is one of the videos I am talking about.

Question: What are the benefits of having private internet access (for personal use) and why are people obsessed over it?
Answer: Specifically, PrivateInternetAccess, if you are referring to that brand/company, is a provider of an anonymous VPN.        Their VPN allows one to mask where their traffic is originating from by sending it through a third party.   In addition, they accept forms of payment which reduce the paper trail behind their identity.   In addition, VPNs may be useful for avoiding blocked/censored websites/services, and they encrypt all traffic between the computer and VPN.

Question: Can someone please explain to me what is so bad about Tesla's intended direct-to-customer sales models and not going through dealers?
Answer: "Eliminating the middle-man?  Never as easy as it sounds.  About 50% of the human race is middle-men, and they don't take kindly to being eliminated."  
--Malcolm Reynolds, *Firefly*

Question: The economics of a chinese buffet. (how do they make enough money?)
Answer: I could think of some reasons why but they may not be the whole truth:

* You don't need as much staff because you aren't serving people at their tables

* You have a set menu so you can make things in bulk and have less chefs required for cooking

* You can order food in bulk since you will have a pretty good idea of your most popular items

* Because the cost to eat is less expensive, you can get a lot of people to come in. The $ add up

Question: What makes the Leatherman multi-tool so good that everyone recommends it?
Answer: Leatherman multi-tools contain lots tools useful for everyday stuff, are convenient to use and carry, have generally very good build quality, and have a good warranty.

Question: Once a President is in office and installs his government, how does the federal government (continue to)investigate him?
Answer: The Congress does the investigations, just like they did with Bill Clinton for over six years.  This is the check on Executive power.

Question: Why do we say "I'm getting on the bus/train/plane?" Yet say "I'm getting in the car?"
Answer: Why do you park in the driveway and drive on the parkway?

Question: Why do we see "child geniuses" who get into colleges at very young ages and know complex math or science from a young age, but don't ever actually see their achievements in these fields when they enter adulthood?
Answer: uh, Mozart?  Most of the top chess players? (Go players too apparently).   

[Most of them live pretty good lives as professionals. ](_URL_0_)   You know, other than Ted Kaczynski...

But a lot of this is just perception. Who would you say are the top 5 mathematical genius's today?   Can you name even one?  Society doesn't really celebrate these guys. They celebrate sportsball, business, and politics. Which, well, you don't have to be a genius for.  It helps, sometimes, but it's not a prerequisite.

Question: How do all of these companies that claim to "consolidate your debt" work?
Answer: It's a loan. They make interest. Since pretty much every debt has interest, they can charge a little more interest (since they tend to be scammy), and sometimes even cut the amount owed. Even with a high but not completely unreasonable interest rate, can still be lower than credit card interest rates, or old loans issued in times of historically higher rates. If most of the debt is high interest, you come out owing less.

But, as you say, the selling point often isn't *lower* payments, rather *easier* payments. You owe one company a bunch of money, rather than many companies some money, and you pay for the privilege of having to buy less envelopes and checks (and/or being a sucker, or to postpone financial distress).

Question: how do the bacteria in probiotic yogurt survive stomach acid and populate the intestines?
Answer: Most of them don't but a few will get through and once they are within the gut they will start multiplying if they can find a niche there. The intestine already has a huge bacterial population and they have a habit of killing their neighbours which is why probiotic* yoghurt etc needs to be taken repeatedly to establish a viable population.

* probiotic really refers to certain nutrients that specifically help bacterial growth rather than the bacteria themselves but the term has been co-opted to mean both.

Question: Where the superstition of walking under a ladder being bad luck come from?
Answer: It's dangerous for both you and the person who may be at the top of the ladder. Something could be dropped on your head or you could possibly knock over the ladder. Don't walk under ladders.

Question: Vickers Hardness Test
Answer: Don't they use synthetic ones?

Synthetic are waaay cheaper then real ones.

Question: UV light in public conveniences.
Answer: Your mum is correct. 

Under UV light you can't see your veins to inject. It also works with blue bulbs I think but is more effective with UV.

EDIT: Missed a word

Question: What is the subreddit "wheredidthesodago" about?
Answer: It's making fun of infomercials. In a certain kind of commercial, (abundant on American TV, I don't know about elsewhere), a certain set of tropes are always present. Most universal among them is a video, often in black and white, of someone utterly failing at a simple task, intended to demonstrate to the viewer why the new product is necessary. 

It's funny, because the new product is almost never necessary, so you have examples of people [too incompetent to operate a blanket](_URL_0_). 

[Here's a textbook example](_URL_1_).

Question: The chemical reactions that go on in my cell phone battery and how to make it last longer
Answer: It's like a really big game of red rover. When the battery is brand new all the kids line up on one side of a football field. This is the + team (Li). When you use the battery kids run across the field to the other side to join the - team (ion). Some kids can't keep running from team to team so they stop in the middle, and play with the grass, or do whatever. Each time more kids can't run the whole way. Till eventually only the fast kids are left. Thus - team fills up faster, and so does your + team. Meaning the battery life is much shorter. Now heres some crayons. I don't like the phrase, "lost it's elements." More like the elements don't play the battery game anymore.

Question: Why couldn't T-Rex have been both predatory AND scavenging?
Answer: Language like this is usually used for disambiguation. It *can* lead to confusion in the process, but mostly it's to try and *avoid* it. 

There's often some overlap between behaviour. In fact, *most*  carnivores will scavenge when given the chance. There just wasn't much hard evidence of this specifically existing for T-Rex, and it's easier to classify animals in 'either / or' groups, than catering to blurry, movable lines. 

Bear in mind, this find **doesn't** constitute proof, either (and the blogspot article seems a bit biased). There could be numerous explanations for it, not all of which imply active hunting.

Question: which is the "Good" side and which is the "Bad" in Syria?
Answer: GOOD: all the innocent population of Syria, all the thousands of 'immigrants' forced to leave their home

BAD: the government, the (moderate) rebels, the terrorists, the US lead coalition, the Russian lead coalition

Question: If mushrooms are made of chitin, a protein, why is the amount of protein listed in the nutritional information so low?
Answer: Chitin is a form of sugar - not protein. Since your question is still valid if you switch those words though, it is a type of sugar that our bodies cannot use. It acts just like fiber (also a sugar) and passes right through so to speak.

Question: The purpose of the "indefinite detention" aspect of the National Defense Authorization Act?
Answer: The biggest reason that I hear cited is that terrorism is very difficult to fight.  A lot of times, the government has to act based on hearsay in order to prevent terrorism, and it's difficult because all the cards are stacked on the terrorists' side; Before NDAA the government couldn't detain potential terrorists, it couldn't legally search their property or (until after 911) wiretap them... someone could be getting all of the materials together for a roadside bomb or something, and we'd be powerless to do anything about it until after a lengthy court case, which requires a ton of evidence and time to get a conviction for, and still leaves the person out in society and free if they can afford bail.  As a result, the government seeks new ways to fight what they see as a more difficult battle than one outside our borders.  

I don't agree with the NDAA at all, but that's the argument that i've heard, and i don't think it's necessarily a stupid argument either.

Question: Byte Storage
Answer: Think of an SD card like a piece of graph paper. You can fill in squares and erase squares to create block pictures. You're never physically adding squares to the paper, you're just drawing and erasing sections of the already existing papers. So you're limited by whatever size of paper you have. To make a bigger picture, you need a larger section of the paper. If you fill the entire page with pictures and want to make another picture, you either need to get a new piece of graph paper or you need to erase some of your previous pictures to make space. 

You're not literally coloring in the square on a hard drive, but it's the same idea. For a hard drive, you set the magnetic polarity (+ or -) of each tiny block of the hard drive. For an SD card and other solid state memory (like flash drives), you're changing the way each block reacts when you send electricity through it. Devices with more storage are capable of reading and writing smaller sections (like having smaller squares on your graph paper).

Question: The time travel paradox (or the hitler's death paradox)
Answer: You cannot time travel, it causes a paradox. In particular it would violate causality as in if you killed Hitler then he would never rise to the point where you need to go back and kill him, which means since you do not go back and kill him, he rises to the point you need to go back and kill him.

Question: How floating-point numbers work
Answer: Floating point numbers are essentially scientific notation. Like when you have a number written as 5.972 * 10^24 .

Written in this way, the number consists of several parts. In this example, 5.927 is called the significand, 10 is the base, and 24 is the exponent.

Floating point numbers use a set number of digits to represent the significand and the exponent. Since they work in binary, the base is always 2, so it doesn't need to store that.

A 32 bit floating point number uses 8 bits for the exponent, 23 bits for the significand and the final bit is used to tell if it is positive or negative.

One point about using binary in this way is that there's actually no need to store the number that comes before the "point". It can only be 1, because if it was 0 you would have shifted the point across a digit.

Question: Why does coffee only taste bad at it's lukewarm state? But tastes amazing if it's at a more extreme temperature?
Answer: Good coffee tastes good hot, warm or cold.
Shit coffee tastes ok when your taste buds don't work...ie extreme temperatures.

Question: What exactly makes seawater salty?
Answer: There is salt naturally in the environment.  Salt dissolves easily in water so any rain falling will wash it into the oceans via rivers.  (Rivers are slightly salty.)  The sun evaporates water from the ocean but salt does not evaporate and so it's left behind.  In other words, the water cycle of evaporation and rain acts to concentrate salt in the oceans.

Question: Why is it bad to remove a flash drive without ejecting it first?
Answer: It's actually not really bad usually.
But when its in the process of writing something on it and you interrupt it you can corrupt the data and the ultimate worst case scenario would be that the flash drives formatting would be f***ed up.

Question: Is the color magenta a real color?
Answer: Does this mean there's such a thing as fake colors? Enlighten me please, because I have no idea what you're talking about.

Question: What would be the effects of consuming equal anoumts of caffeine and alcohol at the same time?
Answer: Your senses would be deprived like you are drunk, but you would also have a lot of energy. Until you drink enough alcohol to pass out or both to vomit your guts out. They won't cancel each other out since it's depressing/upping different things. A chemical which counteracts alcohol/caffeine would cancel them. You would also urinate a huge amount.

Question: Is buying a hybrid or electric car really good for the environment?
Answer: By the benchmarks of emissions and energy usage, hybrids and electric cars do in fact have a lower environmental impact than normal cars.  There's a lot of articles that indicate otherwise, but the ideas expressed in those articles are largely based on two faulty sources, the Daily Mail and CNW Marketing, that do not stand up to scrutiny.

EDIT: ~~I notice that I always get reflexively downvoted by people who don't believe me, which just goes to show the extent to which the misinformation has pervaded the discussion.~~  [Here's](_URL_0_) a more comprehensive outline of the initial sources of the misinformation and their flaws, and a compilation of more quantitative evidence supporting my point.

EDIT 2: Part of comment withdrawn

Question: why are numbers on a Swahili clock pronounced as the opposite number?
Answer: They use standard clocks, but that's not actually how they tell time.  Because they are at the equator, there's not much variation in the length of the day, so sunrise/sunset are roughly at the same time all year.  Seven a.m. is one hour after sunrise, so they call it one in the morning.  Six p.m is 12 hours after sunrise, so they call it 12 in the evening, and then the clocks starts over.  Now, why they don't just set their clocks to tell time in the Swahili manner, I don't know...

Question: What is this greyish blob? have seen it on multiple computers when browsing reddit
Answer: It's just an image: _URL_0_

It's part of that subreddit's style.

Question: The Israeli/Palestine conflict. Try to keep it neutral please!
Answer: _URL_0_

_URL_5_

_URL_2_

_URL_4_

_URL_3_

_URL_1_

 > Imagine you are a person living in an old house.

 > You hear about another guy across town whose roommates beat him up and kicked him out. According to legends and history, this other guy used to live in the house you have now, and his parents and grandparents before him did too, and their family always talks about it as "theirs".

 > So one day the cops show up at your door with this guy and say,"So we've worked out a solution to this guy's problem. You know how he got beat up and kicked out of his house? Well we're going to have him move in here, with you, because his parents and grandparents lived here."

 > "But, I live here now. He, his grandparents and parents were evicted many years ago. I knew they were evicted because of fighting with their neighbors, and some racism may have been involved and it may not have been fair, but this is my house now. I do not want him to live here," you say.

 > "Well that's tough son. We think it would be great for him, and he's done a lot of campaigning about it, so that's it. He's moving in. But don't worry, we'll make it cool for you. We'll split the house up with a line of duct tape, with the kitchen being shared by both of you. So there won't be any problems! It works out for everyone!"

 > "Well that's horseshi-" you start to say, but he's already in your house, relaxing on your couch. The cops leave, and its just you and him.

 > So you constantly fight, physically and verbally. All his friends hate you and your friends, and all your friends hate him and his friends. You still don't believe that he has a right to live in the house, and he still thinks that he should be allowed to live there and prosper because of all the history and legends about his family living there.

 > You are Palestine, the other guy is Israel, all his friends are the Israeli Jews and their supporters (the U.S. being one), all your friends are the Islamic Arab world, and their supporters (which are numerous), the duct tape line is the border between modern day Israel and Palestine, and the kitchen is Jerusalem.

And :


 > Imagine you are a person living in an apartment with some other people. You are not treated well. They harass you, they try to undermine your business dealings, they generally cause you problems.

 > One day, one of them beats the ever loving shit out of you. You escape the apartment alive, but find yourself homeless.

 > You are living at a friend's house, but apparently start to get on his nerves. You tell him all about the house your grandparents helped to build, and your parent's lived in for a long time that means a great deal to your family. All the legends and folklore of your family take place in that house. But you are aware that someone else is living in it now.

 > So one day, your friend says, "look, I have some powerful connections, and I'm going to get you back your old house."

 > You are overjoyed about this, but know it will be a struggle, because of the other inhabitant.

 > So you get with the police and go to this house. A man answers the door. The cops tell him that you used to live in this house, and that it has been passed down the generations in your family, and that you are going to live there again. They tell him how some bullies took the house from your family many years ago.

 > The man protests, saying that he doesn't care who lived in this house before him, that its his house. The cops tell him that that's tough shit, that the house was wrongfully taken from his family, and that they're compromising by letting you both live there. They split the house in half with a duct tape line, and make it clear that the kitchen will be shared by the both of you.

 > You step in while he's talking to the police. You are overjoyed that you have returned to your home, the place you grew up.

 > The guy who was talking to the cops comes in.

 > You are sitting on his couch.

 > You look at him and say, "Look, I wish it didn't have to be this way, but my family has always been here, maybe we can get alo-"

 > But before you finish your statement, he hits you in the jaw. You are not going to stand for that, and punch him in the nose.

 > You fight all the time now, and he hates you and your friends, and you hate him, and his friends, and your relationship to him is causing fights not only between you two, but between your friends and his friends and people you don't even know well.

 > You are Israel, your disgruntled roommate is Palestine, his friends are the Islamic Arab world (which are numerous), your friends are the Israeli Jews and their supporters (of which the United States is one), the cops are the British and the League of Nations, the duct tape line is the Israeli border, and the kitchen is Jerusalem.

 > Note: Obvious oversimplification, many factors at work. I also left out the religious aspect, as I think that that is a problem in and of itself. Also note that this only describes the origin of the conflict, and not the entire history

These comes from the Guide to the Galaxy

Question: How do game codes selling sites have profit?
Answer: Those sellers often get the keys free of cost or buy them at a discount and sell them at higher prices, also they might get them from the manufacturers through shady means and sell them at higher prices.Most of the time keys are not obtained legally(Eg. stolen credit cards).
The websites charge a commission on each sale 

[Here's](_URL_0_) an in-depth article on it

Question: If President Obama is the head of the Executive branch, that is in charge of Law Enforcement, why hasn't he said anything about police brutality in the recent weeks suspects?
Answer: The executive branch is absolutely not in charge of law enforcement. That's the concern of each individual state. Also he had [this to say about Ferguson](_URL_0_)

Question: Why is income inequality such a bad thing?
Answer: Because without it you can't create class warfare. 

Income inequity means nothing.  

Some people make more than others, and that means they either spend more or save more or invest more. 

 If they spend more, then they spend more which helps local business to supply those needs, and contribute to the local tax base through consumption taxes, or some remote business to do the same thing. 

If they save more, then they make more liquidity available to the people to use that money for local investment. 

If it's invested, then they create jobs locally or remotely by providing liquidity to existing or new business to hire workers, buy inventory, or the ongoing business requirements.  This may be locally or all over the world. 

So they save, invest, or spend.

People with issues with it preach the idea that people with high incomes either bury it in the woods, with no banking, no investments, spend none of it, or anything else.  It's all buried in the woods and hurting you.  

The disparity is somehow affecting you, because if person A makes more than person B there's a zero sum philosophy that there's no money left.  This works in microeconomies, but not outside of it. 

They also assume that a 18 year old McDonalds worker who barely graduated high school deserves 100k a year because someone else is making more, and that's the root of the argument, because you'll believe them, and support their other agendas. 

They also assume anyone making more than someone else is evil and should be punished, regardless of the reasons they make more and regardless of what they do with their money. 

The reason why it matters, when it doesn't, is because it plays well and allows people to get power over others and convince them their lives will be better if others are punished.  There's a multitude of psychological studies showing this manipulation, and is used in exactly the same way that creating any scapegoat works, be it Jews, blacks, the rich, the poor, terrorists, whatever.  The goal is to convince you that your problems are due to someone else.  

If those evil CEOs are to blame, then you aren't to blame for why you've gone nowhere in your personal success.

Now this will be downvoted, so it's just for you, but when people start babbling about class or income disparities, they have an agenda to manipulate you, and get you to blame others.  Ignore them.  Their goal is to make you support all their other nonsense.  If you hate the anonymous "rich" it'll make sure you never succeed on your own.  

Think for yourself.

Question: How do animals hibernate for so long?
Answer: I can answer the poop part of your question. 

Bears eat tons of grass prior to hibernation to form a butt plug. This keeps them from defecating. I'm sure other animals have a similar mechanism.

Question: Is the US Police really becoming an arbitrary tool or is it just the "smartphone-video-evolution" which manipulates the facts?
Answer: A lot of people's experiences are going to vary based on where they're from and what their normal activities are.  A rich person from a small town is not going to see things the same way as a poor person from a big city.  Likewise, the police in these environments won't be run the same way.

Overall, you can look up police brutality and misconduct statistics on your own to get a sense of how much trouble there is.  After looking at a bunch of sites (although most of them had a pretty clear anti-cop bias), the estimates suggest that there are 3,000 - 6,000 acts of police misconduct each year.  There are about [780,000](_URL_0_) police and detectives in the country and the overall population is around 314 million people (almost 4x as big as Germany).  Is that a lot of misconduct?  Obviously any misconduct is too much, but whether or not that should be considered noteworthy is a matter of your opinion. 

I'd also like to point out to be careful with the way you view news.  News reports rarely reflect actual event frequencies.  Remember, journalists write about occurrences that are unusual or important.  If a cop shoots an innocent person, that's getting turned into a story and published.  If a cop files all his paperwork properly, gives a driver a speeding ticket, and then defuses a fight between hostile people, that's not going to be considered newsworthy.  This bias is particularly prevalent on reddit, where there is a strong anti-authority sentiment.  People are quick to jump on the bandwagon about associating cops with unnecessary violence.  Additionally, there are often videos posted of police brutality... then when you look in the comments, you hear about the context of the video, making it clear that force was appropriate.

Personally, I can say based on my experiences in my part of the US, there is nothing to fear with police.  It's not like people are worried that a cop will have a bad day and just start beating people or arresting them for fun.  I've even worked with cops as an EMT and I can assure you that they spend a lot of time trying to help out the people they're tasked with protecting.  Contrary to what's on the news, they don't only do bad things.

TL;DR: Police misconduct exists.  However, it's nowhere near as bad as it is depicted in the media.

Question: How does the modern economy work vs the previous and old systems where people traded goods for other goods, or used shells or beads?
Answer: [Try this](_URL_0_).  Lots of commentators seem to like it.

Question: M. Night Shyamalan's demise
Answer: He made ~2 good movies and then most of his later work was subpar.  It happens sometimes, people get lucky and do amazing work a few times and then remain subpar the rest of their life.  Also, another issue is that M. Night Shyamalan movies usually have a twist, which made his first movies interesting but after a while the twist style got old for most people.

Question: Why people don't have any memories from the first 2 or so years of their life?
Answer: the brain doesn't actually develop the capacity to store long term memories till several years after birth. The brain goes through a lot of stages in life, becoming more complex and more structured, till around 22 years old.

Question: What is up with american TV shedules? Why is there huge mid season gaps and in some cases just random breaks of 1-4 weeks that can occur at any given point?
Answer: The purpose of television is not to entertain...it is to sell ads.  The TV schedule is a big chess game where you try to place the right show in the right time slot to make as much money as possible.

You only have so many episodes, so you have to spend them wisely.  Some weeks historically have fewer viewers than others.  Sometimes non-regular events, like sports change the game.  And sometimes they use an older, established show's time slot to try to break in a new show.  And sometimes an actor is in rehab.  

It's a big chess game, and a lot of time why the players make the moves they do won't be readily apparent.

Question: How do "Industry Standards" work? Do some industries have official governed document - or is this really just a buzz word?
Answer: >  Is there a document that they a referencing?

Sometimes, but definitely not always.  

If there is a licensing or governing body that regulates an industry, industry standards could be formally written.  As an example, the FAA establishes many rules for commercial airlines that would be considered "industry standards".  

In other cases, it can be arbitrary.  There is no formal rule that says that commercial web hosts have to back-up their data, but it has become an industry standard that they do, lest the fall behind.  

Other times, there are industry-created standards that aren't technically established by the government, but are hard-coded rules.  As an example, HDMI was created by a group of technology companies to create a single set of standards for that particular port/cable type.  The industry itself created a standard (and licensing arrangement) to better increase compatibility of cables.  

 >   Do people claim something is the Industry Standard based off of what their gut tells them? 

There's nothing preventing them from doing it, but usually there is something (even if it's not formalized) to back up that claim.  

 >  Does this term have value or meaning?

Depending on the context, yes.

Question: Why do long jumpers do weird random seemingly pointless movements before they run and jump?
Answer: There's a certain technique for each jump. Jumpers have to count their steps, and how many of each type of step they have to take before the jump.

Source: ran decathlon in high school

Question: Do deaf people get rhyming? Do they have their own poetic patters based on how they experience language?
Answer: Iirc there is a similar thing to rhyming in asl. The meaning of signs depends on many things including hand shape and position in regards to body. So a sign that includes a certain shape signed over the chest could  "rhyme" with a similar shape signed over the hip.

Question: Sometimes people on TV say "is this a secure line?"  Is this a real thing?
Answer: Usually in movies it means "Can you confirm the line you are calling from hasn't been tapped?" and this is fairly easy to verify if you're using a phone no one would expect you to use, like a random payphone.

As several other redditors have pointed out, for a connection to be confirmed secure in the modern era (where calls are routed digitally and many are wireless), it's impossible to guarantee complete security without at least enabling encryption on both ends (and it must be on both ends so one can decrypt the other's data and vice versa) but there are plenty of free apps and VPN solutions that can do it.

Question: What is a mail order bride?
Answer: There are organizations that provide matchmaking services between American (or, presumably, other first-world) men and women in countries with less opportunity. The stereotype is that the women come from Asian countries, but Russia also appears to be popular these days. The prospective groom chooses one or more women from a list, then corresponds with them. If they mutually decide to, she comes to visit the US and they can get married. He gets a wife; she gets the opportunity to get a legal entry to the US.

Question: How do you properly warm up an engine?
Answer: There is more or less 2 phases to warming the engine.

First, you should let your car idle 20-30 seconds. This ensure that the oil is travelling through the engine, lubricating it.

After that, you can drive normally. Your engine is still not at optimal temperature, so DON'T push the car. Dont rev too high or floor it until the temperature rises. Just drive normally and the engine will heat up

Question: Why movies tend to take a year to produce, while TV shows can broadcast a few months after filming begins
Answer: Sets, budget, and cast. I am by no means an expert, but I have seen this come up a few times and can give you an ELI5 answer. 

When making a movie, you may want to get a particular shot, such as snow falling in NYC. You could CGI it, but there is nothing like the real thing. If the producer starts shooting in the spring, he may need to wait until winter to make the winter shoots. Or if the movie calls for a parade down Waverly Avenue in Chicago, the production team may have to wait for permits and a time when the street is clear, but there is enough light to make it look like midday. TV shows are generally shot as scenes over the course of a season. That means some of the scenes you see in the first episode of a season may have been shot the week before the season started and the last episode of the season may have been shot first. TV shows aren't usually made as one complete episode, they are usually clips that are shot together over a few months. Some are even not fully written when the shooting begins. For an example, look at the clips of Rescue Me that were shot during the writer's strike a couple years ago. The writers had come up with some scenes, but not a full episode for most of them. That left a bunch of disjointed scenes that could be shot, but no full episodes because they hadn't been written. 

Budget is another consideration when making a movie. Most filmmakers can have a few million dollar budget because they know they will make it back in the box office. Unless the TV show is already wildly popular, the budget will be a lot less and post-production will cost a lot less because you sort of have to take what you get. For a movie, a week or two may be used to get a scene just right, for a TV show, there only may be enough time to spend one day on the scene. 

Finally, in a movie, you shoot the scenes based on the availability of the actors. You may have one of the stars only free from Jan through March, another only available from Feb through June. Then only a couple weeks in September when the whole cast is available to reshoot scenes. In episodic TV, most of the cast knows when the shooting season begins and ends and will be required to be available during that time.

Question: How does someone who does prank calls (ex. Ownage Pranks) make sure that their calls can not be traced back to them in any way?
Answer: Most likely either prepaid burner SIM cards or nobody cares enough to look up his name.

Question: when commercials say "Next 20 callers will receive..." How do they keep track of that?
Answer: They don't.  It's just a ploy to trick people into calling immediately rather than thinking about it first.

Question: Why aren't countries referred to by the native word for them by the other countries?
Answer: Many languages have sounds that other languages don't. It's why many people with the same first language have similar accents in a second language (ex: asians and 'L' sound). If the sound or technique used for pronunciation of a particular word is foreign, it'd be difficult for outsiders to say.

On top of that, other languages can have different alphabets, or even different symbols altogether. Ex: 日本 is "Japan" in japanese, but do you, as a native english speaker, recognize that? How is it pronounced? (protip: Nihon)

It's just easier to give everything a name in a way that is easy for you to say/write.

Question: How do chess players guesses how many turns are left to a match ?
Answer: Usually they aren't guessing -- they are actually playing out the best possible moves in their head, and seeing that in a certain number of moves someone will win.

Question: Why does the US and Russia possess enough nuclear weapons to destroy the earth
Answer: Tactically speak, a surprise nuclear attack could wipe out a significant number of a countries nuclear arsenal.  To maintain a nuclear deterrent, it is necessary to be able to wipe out your adversary with only a portion of it.

Question: how does the moon work?
Answer: It doesn't change shape.  What is happening is that only half the Moon is illuminated by the Sun.  As it orbits the Earth you can only see the entire half that is illuminated during a Full Moon, none during a New Moon (because the side that is illuminated is on the other side of the Moon) and various amounts between those 2.

Question: why all oil trading everywhere has to be done in US dollars
Answer: It is?  Do you have a link?

Are you sure the USD is not just used for pricing purposes because its the world's de-facto currency for international trade? 

*And before the Euro people jump down my throat on this... that doesn't mean the USD is superior to anyone... but it is also the go too currency for defining "how much something is worth" in an international scene.

Question: If the Constitution protects against double jeopardy, how can trials go an appellate court?
Answer: The process that happens in an appellate court or other higher court is not considered a separate trial, but rather a continuation of the original trial. What the appellate court tries to determine is whether the first court did a good job deciding the case, not (directly) if the defendant is guilty or not. The American Bar Association has a good explanation [here] (_URL_0_).

Question: Why it's possible to stop breathing voluntary but not your heart beat?
Answer: Here's the real answer: Your diaphragm and intercostal muscles (the muscles that allow you to breathe) are under voluntary control.  Your heart is an involuntary muscle.  Your heart can also become denervated (lose it's nerve connections) and still beat relatively fine.  This is why people who are C2-3 quads don't die but need to go on ventilators. This is why heart transplants work.

Question: how can movie trailers show clips of the movie, which I assume is finished, but not be shown for another year?
Answer: I assume you're talking about the Batman v Superman trailer. They've finished filming and probably finished editing too. They're advertising for the movie so early so people know it's coming. We probably won't get another trailer like this for at least 3 months but this early trailer just gets people excited. It lets people know in the back of their minds that a movie like this is coming rather than bombard people with 3 trailers when we're a few months before the movie.

Question: Is there a limit to the “sound quality” that our ears can hear? If so, will recordings ever reach that limit (or maybe even surpass it)?
Answer: We cannot hear sound above or below certain frequency limits. No matter how good the recording is at reproducing them, even if an electronic device can hear them, we cannot hear these notes.

Question: Waiting for Godot, and why it's considered amazing
Answer: Waiting for Godot is a weird and meta play, but I'll give my take.

Godot means "Little God" in French. So, the characters waiting for some form of savior character day after day for eternity. Meanwhile, they complain constantly about their situation ("I'm tired") or just passively accept it ("We're waiting for Godot.") Neither character is doing anything to make their lives better, they just repeat variations of the same dialogue several times before going home... and presumably repeating the process the next day. Needless to say, their savior never appears.

The two primary characters are the "Everyman": they represent the average, everyday person in society. Sartre is criticizing both the bleak and apparently meaningless world we live in (the set for the play is a lone tree) as well as our inability to do anything to improve it.

I could try to explain a bit more, but that's the short and ELI5 version.

Question: Why are some house flies loud and some silent?
Answer: This is a simple case of their genetics. Different sized flies, having different weights, require different amounts of lift to remain airborne.

Depending on wingspan, and their strength, an insect will beat its wings at different rates.

A butterfly, with large wings, will displace more air per beat, thus generating more lift. This demands more force, but must be done less often. Since the period of their wings' motion is below 20hz, and beyond the human hearing threshold, we cannot hear them fly.

A housefly, on the other hand, displaces very little air per beat due to small wing surface areas. This, while not require a lot of force, must be done very often. Since they must beat their wings roughly 200 times a second, they produce an audible tone at a frequency of up to 1000hz. This changes depending on their flight, whether they are ascending, descending, or traveling laterally, as well as through the Doppler Effect, as they change position relative to the observer in significant time intervals.

Question: How do home shopping tv channels like qvc and hsn stay in business?
Answer: Old people are their market. Old people hate computers and buying things they're not certain about. They see the product, and a smiling salesman, they don't have to read anything or search for it, they pick up that phone and say what they want. Edit: and if I had to guess, I'd say they don't mind paying a little more for the convenience of it.

Question: How does poison work?
Answer: Poison is an American glam metal band that achieved great success in the mid-1980s to mid-1990s. Poison has sold over 30 million records worldwide and have sold 15 million records in the United States alone. The band has also charted ten singles to the Top 40 of the Billboard Hot 100, including six Top 10 singles and the Hot 100 number-one single, "Every Rose Has Its Thorn". The band become icons of the '80s MTV era and have had widespread commercial success. The band's break through debut album, the multi platinum Look What the Cat Dragged In was released in 1986 and they hit their peak with the second album, the multi-platinum selling Open Up and Say... Ahh! which became the bands most successful album ever. The popularity continued into the new decade with their third consecutive multi platinum selling album Flesh  &  Blood.

In the 90's following the release of the bands first live album Swallow This Live, the band experienced some line up changes and the fall of Pop Metal with the grunge movement, but despite the drop in popularity the bands fourth studio album Native Tongue still achieved Gold status and the bands first compilation album Poison's Greatest Hits: 1986–1996 went double platinum.

In the 2000s, with the original line up back together, the band found new popularity after a successful greatest hits reunion tour in 1999. The band began the new decade with the release of the long awaited Crack a Smile... and More!, followed by the Power to the People album. The band toured almost every year to sold out stadiums and arenas. They released a brand new album Hollyweird in 2002 and in 2006 the band celebrated their 20 year Anniversary with The Best of Poison: 20 Years of Rock tour and album, which was certified Gold and marked Poison's return to the Billboard 200 top 20 charts for the first time since 1993. Band members have released several solo albums and starred in successful reality TV shows. After 25 years, the band is still recording music and performing.

Since their debut in 1986, they have released eight studio albums, four live albums, five compilation albums, and have issued 28 singles to radio.

[sauce](_URL_0_)

Question: How weather prediction works and why it requires massive computing power
Answer: We take the (imagined) atmosphere and divide it into really large slabs - about 20km on both sides horizontally and about 1 km up. With each of these slabs there are some well understood equations around the amount of air that's going to flow into and out of each of the six sides. Unfortunately this movement depends on the pressure of the next door slab, which depends on the pressure of the next door slab, which depends on the pressure of the next door slab etc. etc. so to calculate how the air is going to move you need to know the air pressure in *all* of the others, and vice versa.

There are two ways of solving this. Either you can form a massive piece of (actually very easy) maths called a matrix equation and solve it. This takes giant quantities of computer power. Or you can take a guess as to how the air should move, see how wrong you were, and refine the guess until it's more or less right. This takes less giant quantities of computer power but is inaccurate. Arguably.

How it works in practice is that the NOAA produce a huge world-wide model using very large slabs which they then give away. Local weather predictions are made by regarding this as "right", and running another huge calculation with much smaller bricks to see whether or not it's going to rain on your washing.

Question: Tautology
Answer: A tautology is a logical proposition or statement that is true under any condition. Examples of tautologies:

* Statements of the form (either x or not x): "Tomorrow, it'll either rain or it won't."

* Statements of the form (x implies x): "If it rains tomorrow, it'll be rainy."

* Statements of the form (x is equal/equivalent to x): ["The first rule of tautology club is the first rule of tautology club"](_URL_0_)

Question: Why are salt and pepper such ubiquitous ingredients in cooking?
Answer: The human sense of taste has evolved to enjoy salt, because salt is important for your body to keep functioning. But that's not the only cool thing it does, it also seems to suppress our perception of bitter tastes, which lets other tastes like sweet or sour stand out more. Salt not only tastes pretty good on its own, it also makes other things taste better.

Black pepper adds some flavor and a little bit of spiciness, but usually doesn't overpower dishes unless you add too much. 

Many other spices tend to be strong and distinct in flavor, and as such can "take over" a dish, instead of just enhancing it.

Question: What are electromagnetic waves?
Answer: Light is an electromagnetic wave . Thus all EM waves travel at the speed of light. Light is a form of energy so different electromagentic waves have different amounts of energy. 

Light that contains very little energy are things like radio waves and microwaves and infrared light. We use these waves in our everyday lives. 

Light with more energy is visible light. These are the waves that we as humans can see with our eyes. Other than that, they are no different than any other wave. 

The waves with the most energy are ultraviolet, x ray and gamma rays. These electromagnetic waves have uses in our every day lives but because they contain so much energy in them they can harm our body. 

In the simplest sense: Electromagnetic waves are a form of energy that come in many different energy levels.

Question: Why, in boxing, does the referee continue to count after a downed fighter stands back up?
Answer: It is called a standing 8 count.  It basically gives the ref the ability to judge of the fighter is able to go on, or is he is essentially out on his feet.  Also gives the fighter an extra couple of seconds to compose himself before continuing

_URL_0_

Question: Why does 76 F/24 C with the heat running feel different from the same temperature with air conditioning?
Answer: There are lots of things going on with how you think a temperature feels but the basic idea is that we don't really sense the absolute temperature.  We sense differences in temperature.  

The simplest way to see that is being outside on a hot day vs. coming inside from a cold day.  When you come in from a hot day you sense a large drop in temperature so it feels cold.  If you come in from a hot day you sense a large increase in temperature so it feels hot.

If that doesn't cover a case you are thinking of let me know and I can add more complications.

Question: How does sleep restore energy and what causes your brain to signal you to become exhausted?
Answer: Sleep doesn't really restore energy, your body is actually kind of tricking you into resting by producing chemicals that make you feel exhausted. 

Make no mistake, you need sleep to avoid long term damage to most of your systems; feeling tired is an illusion though.

Question: Why do some companies have different names for different countries? Like Lynx/Axe or Asda/Walmart
Answer: In the case of Asda/Walmart, Asda was already an established chain of stores - Walmart buys it to a) gain presence in the UK where it has none... and quickly b) instantly gain Asda's customer loyalty and logistics (instead of establishing its own stores, its own infrastructure and THEN trying to win customers over.  Once you've bought it, you don't want to immediately change the name, because that might confuse existing customers. Or indeed, if you're making money, why bother changing it?  (in Europe, the Walmart brand might even have negative "cheap American schlock" connotations)

In the case of Lynx/Axe, those are brand/tradmark issues. Essentially Unilever (the company) couldn't register Axe as a trademark in the UK so they had to call it something else. Brand trademarks are a regional thing. (I couldn't find what company/product owns the "Axe" trademark in the UK)

Question: How come people can use quotes in movies without citing the source and it's fine, but if you don't do it in writing it's plagiarism?
Answer: It depends on the type of writing. If you're writing a novel you can use quotes as see fit. In academic writing you need to cite anything that isn't your own original work which includes quote.

Question: Why is there an obvious difference between girl and boy handwriting?
Answer: Handwriting style is formed during penmanship practice in grade-school homework assignments.  Girls are not just more fastidious about their penmanship homework, they are notably more fastidious about all graded assignments in grade school than boys are.  There are lots of different explanations for why this is... more obedient, stronger identification with their (usually female) teachers, more ability to focus on repetitive tasks for a long period of time... but I don't think it is conclusively known.

Question: How did we get from the "Golden Age" of Air Travel to the current state of air travel?
Answer: The golden age of air travel was also the golden age of family road trip vacations.  The services were caused by minimum price regulations that placed a very high minimum price for a flight (a low priced flight across the country cost the equivalent of about $1500 today).  Because it costs far less than $1500 to fly across the country, airlines competed for travellers by offering services.  

When the regulations requiring very high minimum prices were removed, airlines began removing services and lowering prices to find that most people prefer lower prices to bundled services, so they deliver the services for which the most people will pay.  

Edit: Corporate greed means selling the most profitable services for the most money.  It's foolish and not greedy to cut services people want at prices higher than the cost of providing them.

Question: How does sleep debt/build up work?
Answer: The first question to answer is, what is the point of sleep? 

Among some other functions, the primary purpose of sleep is for the brain to enter into a maintenance mode. Think of it as that 2am hard drive defragging that runs when you wouldn't otherwise be on your computer. Instead of space reallocation, however, the brain's process is biochemical and serves to "wash and replenish" the brain's cellular machinery, something that can't happen when the individual is in a waking state. This process is both reactive (meaning it doesn't do any good to do it before there's a mess to clean) and rate limited (which means that it takes X amount of time to achieve Y results). As such, the normal waking/sleeping cycle maintains an equilibrium of building up a mess and cleaning it up. 

You can't bank sleep. That would be similar to cleaning an already clean house for the sake of cleaning it and expecting any mess that you make in the future to come out of the extra work you did. It just doesn't work like that.

Question: When you create a new object in Java, why do you have to say what kind of object it is and then repeat it as new?
Answer: Because you're first defining the object. You're telling the computer that 'Hey, there's a thing, and it looks like this.'

But that thing doesn't exist yet.

That's what the *new* keyword is for. You're allocating memory by telling the computer 'Hey, you remember that thing I told you about? Make room for one.'

E: Also, you should check out /r/learnprogramming

Question: Myspace came first, but Facebook is more successful. What happened and why?
Answer: People thought Facebook was better, then everyone switched over almost at once.  MySpace wasn't first either; before that there was something called Friendster, and before that I personally used something called AsianAvenue, which was social networking for Asians.  Each time, everyone switched almost at once.  

In fact, these switches happened with enough regularity that I'm sort of surprised that Facebook has held on for this long.

source: I'm an old fart.

Question: How come we can't change the volume of the voice in our head?
Answer: Because they are thoughts; it’s not a literal voice that is creating vibrations against our eardrums.

Question: Going along with the trash to energy question - Why arent we using the methane produced from decommissioned, sealed landfills as energy?
Answer: we are.   some outfits do this already.   however this is a SMALL SMALL portion of total power output of the nation.

Question: Why are states on the east coast so much smaller than the states on the west coast?
Answer: The states on the east coast were populated first (European population that is...). State lines (colony lines initially) were devised in various ways, but all dependent on much of the east coast being populated very early. In other words, there were lots of people clumped up into various areas on the east coast and they divided themselves into colonies and then states.

It took longer for Euro-Americans to go further west, and when they did the populations were very small at first. So the western territories were much larger areas, with very low populations, and many of those whole territories later became states.

That's actually the way it remains to this day. If you rank the states by population density, California is the only western state in the top half, and it's only #11. Little Rhode Island has almost four times the population density as California.

Question: How can gorillas and other herbavores get so big and muscular from a diet of essentially leaves and plants, while vegan humans tend to loose muscle mass on plant based diets?
Answer: Nobody here has addressed the genetic basis and control of muscle mass and buildup in response to testosterone levels. One reason for example that a male gorilla simply builds muscle easily is because their muscles do not atrophy as easily and "build" with much less limitation for little exercise.

Question: Why can't game streamers have music playing in their videos, but there are countless music videos and songs on youtube already?
Answer: If you post a Youtube video of somebody elses song, an advertisement will pop up on the video and the ad money would go to the artist/company, not you. So basically they are claiming your video as soon as it's posted to Youtube. A stream is harder to monitor like that considering it's live and the people who own the website where you stream probably don't want to get sued. lol

Question: Does the start/stop feature in modern cars actually save fuel or is it just a gimmick?
Answer: Modern cars with direct injection are very easy to start up. They require less RPM and are much more reliable than they used to, so it takes far less energy to start up the car, especially once it's already warmed up. This means that it only takes a couple of seconds of idling to be worth it, even though it's not very much.

Cars which come with start/stop also usually come with a more reliable and more powerful ignition system, which can last a lot more cycles.

Question: How come when we look at something bright, we can see the image burned into our eyelids when we close our eyes?
Answer: The way we see is that photons (light particles) from objects stimulate cells in the back of our eyes. This stimulation takes the form of light-sensitive molecules changing their shape as a photon hits them. When they are in this changed shape, they send a message to the brain saying "I'm activated", which the brain interprets as us seeing something.

Now, the fact that something is really bright means that it gives off a lot of photons, and thus it activates a lot of your cells. Now, it takes some time for the light-receiving molecules to fold back to their deactivated state; so if you look at a bright object and close your eyes, there is a time period where the molecules are still activated and sending messages to your brain, so your brain thinks you're still seeing the thing until all of the molecules deactivate.

Question: why do we have (driving) wheels in four wheelers and (handle) bars on two wheelers only?
Answer: 4 wheel ATVs have handlebars and not steering wheels... so I'm confused by this question.

Question: Why do some humans feel lonely, despite having people around them such as friends and family?
Answer: Having people around is not the same as connecting with them. Lonely is an emotional response; proximity is physical.

Question: What is the US Gun Lobby and how does it have such a large political influence?
Answer: The gun lobby is just a group of organizations and activists who believe in protecting and expanding legal access to firearms.  The largest and most powerful organization is the National Rifle Association (NRA).  The reason they're so powerful is because they're incredibly well-funded, which gives them deep pockets to wage media campaigns against politicians they don't like. 

As far as acquiring a gun, the laws vary state-by-state.  If you go through a licensed store, you can walk up to the counter, pick out a gun, pay for it, and then after a waiting period of a few days and a background check to ensure you're not a criminal, you can pick it up.  In some instances it might be easier to purchase a gun, and in some it might be harder.

For guns to actually be banned would require a repeal of our Second Amendment to the Constitution.  For that to happen, the overwhelming majority of Americans would have to come around to a change of heart and believe that guns should be banned.  Even if that happened, there is likely to remain a small part of the population that would refuse to comply and give up their firearms.  Whether this segment would be wiling to actually fight over it is an unknown question.  A lot of people say they would go to war if someone tried to take away their guns, but we have no real way of knowing what would actually happen.

Question: I am not an American and don't know why John F Kennedy was/is so highly thought of
Answer: Honestly, mostly because he was young (by politician standards), handsome, charismatic, and he was assassinated before his time. In short, he was perfect martyr material.

Also, people looked to the young president as the symbol of hope for a better future. After his death, we instead got the Vietnam War and the general chaos of the 1960s. I suppose baby boomers look to him as a symbol of the future we were *supposed* to have and see his assassination as the moment when we went "wrong".

Question: What is Discordianism?
Answer: It's a joke.  It's a religion.  It's a joke about religion.  It's a religion about jokes.

You can learn everything you need to know by [reading the Principia Discordia](_URL_0_).

Question: how does drinking water coming into NYC not get dirty from the pipes?
Answer: Why would the pipes be dirty?

Water utility workers will occasionally open valves and hydrants to blow sediment out of the mains, but for the most part they stay pretty clean unless there's a major break.

Question: How can the law restrict us to so many work breaks but smokers can take how ever many they'd like?
Answer: > Why is it that if I were a smoker I would have no problem taking several breaks throughout the shift?

Because your employer is treating people unfairly.  There's no law about smoke breaks.  This is entirely an issue with your employer's break policy.

Question: Why do humans scream when scared?
Answer: To signal others about the danger.  It's typical for social species to instinctively let out cries or other ways of warning the others of the tribe about approaching predators or enemies.  Such collective defense makes both the group and its individual members safer.

Question: What does music sound like to animals?
Answer: I actually think this is a really good question. I enjoy some pretty heavy music and I've played it around animals before. It seems to me that if you had an actual person in the room screaming his lungs out a dog or cat would respond to it, but they seem pretty indifferent toward that kind of thing coming out of a stereo. Makes me wonder if they process it differently somehow? Maybe they require a visual cue to clue in that it's actually a human voice.

Question: Corporate  &  Top 5% Tax Loopholes.
Answer: They're not loopholes. That's just a propaganda word people use to confuse things.

There are basically two different things that people sometimes erroneously call loopholes: There are tax deductions, and then there are standard accounting practices.

A tax deduction is anything that you can *spend* money on that *reduces* your taxable income. So say you're an individual — this applies equally well to corporations; we're just keeping it simple — who earns $100,000 in a year. You spend a quarter of that, let's say, on *stuff*, stuff like your mortgage and food and whatever. That leaves you with $75,000 at the end of the year.

Let's *pretend* — this is not how it works, but this is just an example — that your tax rate is a flat 10% of your taxable income, and your taxable income is everything you make in a year. That means in this year, your taxable income is $100,000, and ten percent of that is $10,000, meaning at the end of the year you owe the government $10,000, out of the $75,000 you have on hand.

But the government allows you to *deduct* charitable contributions from your taxable income. Meaning anything you give to charity is *subtracted from* your taxable income for the year. Since you have $75,000 left over at the end of the year, you can write a $50,000 check to your local soup kitchen, let's say. That $50,000 gets *subtracted* from your taxable income, making your taxable income just $50,000, rather than $100,000. Since your tax is 10% of your taxable income, you just reduced your tax bill from $10,000 to $5,000, which is only 5% of your gross income.

Some people just look at the last sentence — you only paid 5% of your gross income in taxes — and think that's unfair, so they call deductions a loophole. In truth, we give tax deductions *hoping people will take advantage of them.* They're *incentives* to get people to do certain things with their money, things like give to charity, or save for their retirement or future health-care needs, or put a kid through college.

The other thing people sometimes mistakenly call "loopholes" are just standard accounting practices. One thing that's been in the news kind of recently is the question of personal income from hedge fund managers. A hedge fund is a type of investment that's managed by a person. That person doesn't get paid a salary; instead, he gets a percentage of the profits the hedge fund makes under his management. Makes sense, right? You're tying the manager's compensation directly to his job performance.

Well, since the hedge fund manager draws no salary and instead takes a percentage from the fund's gain, all his income is taxed at the capital gains tax rate of 15%, not at the income tax rate of (up to) 35%. Some people call this a loophole, but that's just propaganda. Accounting for your income that way is what you're *supposed to do.* It's not a cheat. It's how the system is set up. We can talk about whether the system *should be* set up that way or not, but the fact is that *is* how the system is set up, and the hedge fund manager who reports his income as capital gain is following the rules. If he did it any *other* way he'd be *breaking* the rules, and he'd get in trouble for it.

So basically, whenever you hear somebody say "tax loophole", understand that they're almost certainly talking about things that are built into the system for good reason and which people do because they're supposed to. The phrase does *not* imply that people are cheating the system and getting away with it; it's just supposed make you *think* it implies that, so you can get mad at those dirty cheats … who are in reality just doing exactly and nothing other than what the tax code tells them they're supposed to do.

Question: What does it mean to be an offside player in soccer?
Answer: A player has crossed the other teams defensive line, past the last defender before the ball has.  So there is an unfair advantage, it prevents goal camping from the offense.

Question: Why does earthquake depth matter
Answer: AHA! I *knew* my oceanography could help someone!

The Earth is unique among a lot of planets due to our *plate tectonics*. This is basically stating that Earth is like a giant puzzle, with HUGE pieces (like the North American plate) constantly being moved, where they are pulling apart/sub-ducting under/grinding against one another. 

California rests on the North American plate, which is currently clashing with the Pacific plate. The Pacific plate subducts under th e North American plate. You don't "feel" the plate moving all the time because the when one plate subducts under another, it isn't a gradual process. Tension builds, builds, builds until it finally *snaps!* And energy is released from this event.

Now, all this information has been leading up to answer your question; if a subduction event happens closer to the surface, it will almost always be more powerful and destructive. The deeper the depth, the less intense it will be. The closer to the surface, the more you'll wish you were either out at sea or in the air. This is because of how energy "dissipates" or scatters out as it passes through matter. If energy didn't dissipate as it traveled through matter, then earthquakes that happened in Tokyo would be felt over here! Every single earthquake (which the Earth experiences *a lot* of each day) would be a catastrophic event!

Question: How does calorie counting make you lose weight if you eat the extra calories gained by exercising?
Answer: Wow - you seem confused.

First of all: Check out _URL_1_

Second: Work out your Total Daily Energy Expenditure (TDEE) here: _URL_0_

If you want to lose weight, then eat 500kcal below this value CONSISTENTLY.

Note that the TDEE calculation takes exercise into account.

You can absolutely lose weight without exercising, I will just not be very healthy. Then you'll just be a thinner person, not necessarily a healthier person.

Question: What is the internet?
Answer: At first glance, that might look like a stupid question, but it's actually very good, and the answer has varied over time.

In the beginning, the internet consisted of relatively few computers, more or less directly connected to other computers on the network, passing messages between them so they reached the correct destination.

Now, of course, this doesn't scale well. Security is an issue of you have no idea which computer your message will bounce through. Performance quickly becomes an issue as bottlenecks develops. You rely on people supplying you with their (expensive) bandwidth for transferring your messages.

So, some organizations started setting up strong connections between each other, to create more powerful direct links. After a while this turned into a network more like the telephone network, where we have dedicated carriers who do the back bones, and then local service providers to connect the customers to the backbones.

So, now, we basically have a network of very fast high capacity connections moving the data over long distances, and at the ends of those connections, there are smaller networks connecting the customers.

This is a big question, and I don't know if I answered the part of it you wanted an answer to. If not, clarify, and I'll make another try.

Question: Why does cheese taste so much better when it's melted?
Answer: It doesn't. You just like it better.

Also, 'cheese' is not all the same, there are probably hundreds of varieties...

Question: Why does my 21 inch LED monitor support 1080p but my 32 inch LED tv only does 720p?
Answer: You are meant to sit closer to your monitor than you are to your TV, therefore resolution matters more on a monitor than it does on a TV.

That being said, there are several models of 32" TVs that support 1080p perfectly fine.  One that only goes up to 720p is a cheaper model, or several years old.

Question: Why do all artificial flavors taste the same, e.g. watermelon, but nothing like the actual fruit?
Answer: Not a complete answer by any means, but banana flavor is actually super interesting. The current banana we are all familiar with has zero genetic diversity. In fact they are pretty much all genetically the same plant. They can't even be grown from seeds any more since, well, when was the last time you found a seed in your banana? They're all grown by transplanting parts of existing plants.

This means though that bananas are very susceptible to disease and way back a few decades ago there was a different type of banana that got wiped out and we never changed it. This was the banana that artificial banana flavor is based on and is why banana candy tastes nothing like the bananas we are familiar with.

Question: What gives milk its white colour?
Answer: The white stuff it contains:

* [Butterfat](_URL_0_), which is a bright yellow color
* [Lactose](_URL_2_) (sugar), which is white.
* Proteins, mainly [casein](_URL_1_) which is rich in calcium.

Question: How was hydrofluoric acid contained or used before plastic was invented if it eats glass containers?
Answer: It was held in glass bottles that had a coating of wax inside. 

*”And, like many other acids, it also reacts with metals, so storing it is a bit tricky.  Where do you put something that eats through its container? Well, these days it’s stored in special plastic bottles, but in the 17th century when it was first discovered chemists had to use glass bottles coated inside with wax, and hope the coating was a good one.”*

[source](_URL_0_)

Question: Amanda Knox trial
Answer: Since this is a dupe, I'll repost my comment from [here](_URL_0_):

---

Amanda Knox was an American studying in Italy. She lived with a British roommate, Meredith Kercher, and was dating an Italian man, Raffaele Sollecito. In November 2007, while Knox and Sollecito were out together, a man named Rudy Guede broke into Knox and Kercher's apartment and raped and murdered Kercher.

Guede's guilt was thoroughly and irrefutably established by ample physical evidence. He protested that he had simply been burglarizing the apartment when someone else broke in and murdered Kercher. He later changed his story to some kind of bizarre sex game involving both Knox and Sollecito in which he himself was blameless.

The evidence against Knox and Sollecito is essentially nil. Prosecutors claimed to have found DNA evidence implicating them, but the alleged evidence was contaminated and mistreated, and to get any traces of DNA, the lab needed to perform experimental (and questionable) amplification procedures that they were not qualified for. There were also footprints that tested negative for blood, "proving" that someone had cleaned up the scene to conceal their involvement.

In addition to the "physical" evidence, the prosecution claimed that their conduct had been suspicious. You can google this if you want, but it's all inconsequential given that there was never any reason to suspect them to begin with. Much of it is ordinary character assassination – painting Knox as "loose" and a partier, that sort of thing, as though that were evidence of murder.

All three of them were convicted, Guede because he was clearly, unambiguously guilty and Knox and Sollecito because people are stupid and make stupid decisions when confronted with violent murder, sex, and international tensions. An appeals court overturned that verdict, largely citing a report pointing out that the alleged physical evidence was garbage. That court freed the two and ordered a new trial.

---

I did a bit more reading, to catch up with what's happened in the last couple of years. Addenda:

- One of the "suspicious" things that Knox did was falsely implicate her boss. This occurred during an extended high-pressure interrogation during which Knox claims to have been mistreated. It turns out that the whole idea of her boss being involved was fed to her by the police based on their misunderstanding of the phrase "see you later" in a text message. Knox retracted the implication the next day. She was convicted of slander, and the appeals court did not overturn this, setting her sentence as three of the years she had already served.
- Guede did change his story to implicate Knox and Sollecito after hearing that they were suspects, but the wild orgy-murder scenario was dreamed up by the prosecutor. Also, alleged Satanism. Yeah.
- There will be another trial because the prosecution appealed. This is a thing that can happen in Italy. Knox will not return to stand trial, and it is unlikely that she would be extradited even if (somehow) found guilty.

Question: Why is it that so much fundraising is targeted at cancer related diseases while heart disease is continually the leading cause of death in Western cultures?
Answer: Isn’t it because generally, a healthy lifestyle prevents heart diseases whereas cancer is unpredictable.

Question: Role of Food preservative. How do some processed food claims 0% preservative added, and yet they could be used for a whole year?
Answer: That food might naturally be that shelf-stable; the only claim is that they don't *add* preservatives. It's like how fruit juices advertise "no sugar added" because all the sugar came from the fruit themselves.

Of course, without a specific example this is just guesswork.

Question: How does someone with the name 'Jose Torres' become a white supremacist?
Answer: I know, right? I was wondering that, too. I guess we're products of our environment. Throw a Jose in a pack of white supremacists, and he can turn out racist too (sometimes)

Question: Why do i dream more when i sleep after I have been reading?
Answer: Actually, you dream about the same amount every night (REM is your brain organizing your memories); it just depends on how much of the dream you remember. Memories are kept more often if they're important, vivid, or recent. Considering books are only successful if they satisfy both former characteristics, then your memory will contain more recent and memorable memories from which your dreams grab, making them more vivid and interesting, making you more likely to remember them.

Question: How does a woman's body know to sync menstrual cycles with other women that are frequently around?
Answer: This doesn't actually happen, though it is a commonly cited myth.  Multiples studies have shown that there isn't much truth to the "menstrual sync" hypothesis, though it can *seem* that way.  In any group of adult women, chances are that 1/4 of them will be bleeding at any given time.  If they're living in close proximity enough to notice each other's cycles, it's easy to notice overlap with each other and it can easily seem like you are moving in some sort of synchronized fashion.  

But you don't ever get a case where all the women have moved to be on the same cycle, like they're jumping rope together.  That just doesn't happen.

Question: Why is the defense budget in the USA so high?
Answer: Several people have talked about corruption and that's certainly a factor, but in ELI5 terms it's important to understand that the military goals of the US are different from the goals of many other countries. 

Many countries are interested in protecting themselves from invasion. Even in extreme cases (like Switzerland booby trapping every route into the country and building underground shelters to house the entire national population) the cost is relatively capped. There is only so much you can spend on self-defense. 

The US, on the other hand, is concerned primarily with *projecting power*. This is a very different goal. The US has only been invaded once in 1812 and due to its geographic location faces no plausible threat of invasion now or in the future. So, for the first item, any military action by the US is likely to take place *far away*. Transporting troops, keeping them supplied and armed away from home is vastly more expensive than rallying troops to protect their home from invasion. 

Along similar lines, the US has a political goal of projecting power *anywhere in the world on very short notice*. Not only do they want to be able to take military action anywhere on the planet, the want to do so *quickly*. The idea behind this is that it is a powerful deterrent to anyone who might want to attack or act against the US. The many bases around the world, the enormously expensive infrastructure of maintaining missiles, in-flight refueling for combat aircraft, etc is all undertaken in support of this goal. 

Third, the US is highly risk averse when it comes to risking the lives of military personnel. While the US public sees military *service* as highly admirable, there is no corresponding enthusiasm for loss of personnel in battle. In other societies throughout human history, losing a son in battle was an indicator of social status. There is an argument that contemporary suicide bombers are an extension of this idea. Reducing the number of troops in harms way through the use of long distance weapons is enormously expensive. 

Finally, the US currently sees its primary military adversaries as non-state actors. This may be somewhat counterintuitive, but it can be more difficult (and certainly much more expensive) to prepare for war against small terrorist organizations than it is against nation states. The huge escalation of surveillance falls into this category. If you want to spy on another country, they have obvious places to start: government buildings, military installations, embassies, etc. If you believe your enemy could be anyone anywhere in the world, it only makes sense to surveil everyone everywhere all the time. This (as the US is finding) is an endlessly expensive undertaking. 

TL;DR: Unlike most other countries, the US wants to be able to fight anyone anywhere at any time. This costs more. Also, corruption.

Question: Why are knives and swords curved?
Answer: It gives the blade a point to drive forward, if that makes sense. Imagine you have a big juicy steak in front of you. You grab your fork and knife and get ready to cut a bite. Your knife is perfectly straight from the handle to the tip. As you try to cut your steak, the tip of the knife keeps stabbing at the meat and it's taking quite a lot of energy to get through the meat. 

So you set down that knife and pick up a slightly curved one. Instead of the straight downward pressure you used before, you can now start with a higher angle and drive the curved edge through the steak with ease. 

The same goes for swords. You're in a war and you're running at your enemy with a sword. It's got a straight sharp blade. You swing it at him and you land a nice deep cut, but your blade got stuck. You struggle to get it out while your enemy swings at you. Now imagine the same scenario with a curved blade like a scimitar. You swing and hit your enemy; although you may not have landed quite as deep of a blow, the curved blade had less of a chance to get stuck.

Question: How do planes avoid collisions above the Atlantic where there is no radar?
Answer: There are airplane “highways” usually separated by 10 000 ft. East you fly odd (ie 30 000ft) and west you fly even(ie 40 000ft)

Question: Why do flies and most flying insects seem to intentionally keep bothering you after swiping at them multiple times?
Answer: That's a bit like asking you why when it's hot out three days in a row you don't just move to another UNIVERSE.  They aren't smart, their worldview is about 1 bazillionth of a second in front of them and a foot around them.  They are running on auto-pilot and the auto-pilot programmer was a mouse, who was in a coma.

Question: Why does healthcare in the USA cost so much more than elsewhere, is it better than treatment elsewhere?
Answer: In the UK everyone contributes to healthcare via taxes.  More people contributing to a communal pool means lower overall costs for everyone.


In the US everyone has to buy their own insurance and many people don't/can't.  Smaller amount of people contributing to a communal pool means higher overall prices for everyone.


Added to that people with insurance are technically covering those without because it's illegal for a hospital to turn down patients.  If someone comes in with a broken leg or gunshot wound or whatever, the hospital is required to care for them.  If they don't have insurance the hospital has to write it off as a loss and the prices for everyone else's care goes up as a result.

Question: Please explain climate change proof like I am 5
Answer: In the last 650k years, Earth has gone through 7 periods of glacial advance and retreat. The last was 7k years ago, marking the end of the Ice Age.

CO2 was demonstrated to trap heat in the mid 19th century. In the course of the last 650k years, Earth atmospheric CO2 levels has never been above 300ppm, and we know that through mineral deposits, fossils, and arctic ice leaving telltale predictable signs of how much CO2 must have been in the air at the time. Today, CO2 is over 400ppm. Not only have we kept fantastic records pre-industrial revolution, especially the Swedes for centuries, but arctic ice has acted as a more recent history of the last several dozen centuries. CO2 levels has been growing at unprecedented rates and achieving levels higher than we've ever known to occur that wasn't in the wake of planetary disaster and mass extinction. It follows that if CO2 traps heat, and there's more CO2 in the atmosphere than ever before, it's going to trap more heat than ever before.

Sea levels are rising. 17cm over the last century. The last decade alone has seen twice the rise of the previous century. So not only are the oceans rising, but the rate of rise is increasing *exponentially*.

The Earth's average temperature has increased since 1880, most of that has been in the last 35 years. 15 of the 16 hottest years have been since 2001. We're in a period of solar decline, where the output of the sun cycles every 11 or so years. Despite the sun putting out less energy, the average continues to rise and in 2015 the Earth's average was 1C hotter on average than in 1890. That doesn't sound like much, but if we go some 0.7C hotter, we'll match the age of the dinosaurs when the whole planet was a tropical jungle. That's not a good thing.

The ice caps are losing mass. While we've seen cycles of recession and growth, you have to consider ice is more than area, it's also thickness and density. Yes, we've seen big sheets of ice form, but A) they didn't stay, and B) how thick were they? Greenland has lost 60 cubic miles of ice and Antarctica has lost at least 30 cubic miles, both in the last decade. Greenland is not denying global warming, they're feverishly building ports to poise themselves as one of the most valuable ocean trading hubs in the world as the northern pass is opening, and it's projected you'll be able to sail across the north pole, a place you can currently stand, year-round.

Glacier ice is retreating all over the world, in the Alps, Himalayas, Andes, Rockies, Alaska and Africa.

The number of unprecedented intense weather events has been increasing since 1950 in the US. The number of record highs has been increasing, and record lows decreasing.

The ocean absorbs CO2 from the atmosphere. CO2 and water makes carbonic acid, - seltzer water! The oceans are 30% more acidic since the industrial revolution. 93% of The Great Barrier Reef has been bleeched and 22% and rising is dead as a consequence. The ocean currently absorbs 9.3 billion tons of CO2 a year and is currently absorbing an additional 2 billion tons annually. Not because the ocean is suddenly getting better at it, but because there's more saturation in the atmosphere.

---

IPCC Fourth Assessment Report, Summary for Policymakers, p. 5

B.D. Santer _URL_6_., “A search for human influences on the thermal structure of the atmosphere,” Nature vol 382, 4 July 1996, 39-46

Gabriele C. Hegerl, “Detecting Greenhouse-Gas-Induced Climate Change with an Optimal Fingerprint Method,” Journal of Climate, v. 9, October 1996, 2281-2306

V. Ramaswamy _URL_6_., “Anthropogenic and Natural Influences in the Evolution of Lower Stratospheric Cooling,” Science 311 (24 February 2006), 1138-1141

B.D. Santer _URL_6_., “Contributions of Anthropogenic and Natural Forcing to Recent Tropopause Height Changes,” Science vol. 301 (25 July 2003), 479-483.

In the 1860s, physicist John Tyndall recognized the Earth's natural greenhouse effect and suggested that slight changes in the atmospheric composition could bring about climatic variations. In 1896, a seminal paper by Swedish scientist Svante Arrhenius first predicted that changes in the levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere could substantially alter the surface temperature through the greenhouse effect.

National Research Council (NRC), 2006. Surface Temperature Reconstructions For the Last 2,000 Years. National Academy Press, Washington, DC.

Church, J. A. and N.J. White (2006), A 20th century acceleration in global sea level rise, Geophysical Research Letters, 33, L01602, doi:10.1029/2005GL024826.

The global sea level estimate described in this work can be downloaded from the CSIRO website.

_URL_7_

_URL_5_

_URL_0_

_URL_11_   
T.C. Peterson _URL_6_., "State of the Climate in 2008," Special Supplement to the Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, v. 90, no. 8, August 2009, pp. S17-S18.

I. Allison _URL_6_., The Copenhagen Diagnosis: Updating the World on the Latest Climate Science, UNSW Climate Change Research Center, Sydney, Australia, 2009, p. 11

_URL_8_

_URL_9_ 01apr_deepsolarminimum.htm

Levitus, et al, "Global ocean heat content 1955–2008 in light of recently revealed instrumentation problems," Geophys. Res. Lett. 36, L07608 (2009).

L. Polyak, _URL_6_., “History of Sea Ice in the Arctic,” in Past Climate Variability and Change in the Arctic and at High Latitudes, U.S. Geological Survey, Climate Change Science Program Synthesis and Assessment Product 1.2, January 2009, chapter 7

R. Kwok and D. A. Rothrock, “Decline in Arctic sea ice thickness from submarine and ICESAT records: 1958-2008,” Geophysical Research Letters, v. 36, paper no. L15501, 2009

_URL_2_

National Snow and Ice Data Center

World Glacier Monitoring Service

_URL_10_

_URL_3_

_URL_1_

C. L. Sabine _URL_6_., “The Oceanic Sink for Anthropogenic CO2,” Science vol. 305 (16 July 2004), 367-371

Copenhagen Diagnosis, p. 36.

National Snow and Ice Data Center

C. Derksen and R. Brown, "Spring snow cover extent reductions in the 2008-2012 period exceeding climate model projections," GRL, 39:L19504

_URL_4_

Rutgers University Global Snow Lab, Data History Accessed August 29, 2011.

Question: In the Star Wars Universe, are lightsaber duels decided by whoever is the stronger force user or is it more of a skill based battle?
Answer: It is a mixture of the two since the force effects your reflexes, physical strength, focus and predicting your opponents moves. Rey may well have been just as strong in the force as Kylo but she also likely had some skill with physical weapons based off the fact she carried a staff most of the time leading to an even-ish match up.

Question: Why do we feel sleepy in warm temperature rather than cold temperature ?
Answer: I learned at least one of the reasons for this from a professor last semester. He's a kineticist (that's a field of chemistry) and very into endurance running -- and he told us just exactly why the perfect running temperature (high 60s to low 70s) is what it is: Pyruvate kinase

Essentially, the heat outside actually interferes with the body's ability to make ATP, the energy molecule, out of the food we digest. This happens because pyruvate kinase, a crucial enzyme in ATP synthesis, is concerted mostly into a biologically inactive conformer at around 85 degrees F.

This conformer is present in some portion at 70 degrees, but it's mostly the active form that dominates. After about 85 or so, you have a 60/40 ratio of the inactive to active forms.

TL;DR heat slows down your metabolism and you run out of energy.

Question: why do ebooks cost more than paperback?
Answer: I have never seen an eBook cost more than a physical version of the same book. What makes you think this is a thing that happens?

Question: Why do most toilets have handles and not pedals?
Answer: I believe this problem has been erradicated with the installation of, the bathroom sink, in which to wash your hands afterwards.

Question: If the House always wins, how come most casinos go broke?
Answer: Casinos have tremendous fixed costs. They are in A+ locations that require huge loans for land and building. They have to purchase furniture, televisions etc. They also have to purchase gaming tables, electronics, and systems. They also have to pay more labor than most service industries. There is cleaning staff, management, floor staff etc. Casinos are heavily regulated by the government and their winning percentages are recorded. They cannot for example 'tweak' the electronics for higher payouts. Everything is done on percentages and casinos win more than they lose but not by much. People have to feel like they can win. Customer acquisition costs are tremendous because a customer can simply walk out the door if they feel like they are losing. To entice gamblers to stay and reduce customer turnover they provide costly amenities like low priced food and free alcohol.

As casisnos age they become less popular. Customers are often attracted to newer, better, larger aspect of casinos. A new casino down the street can easily pull a large percentage of customers from older casinos. Considering that they need to be remodeled frequently and heavily advertised.

Often whales define a casinos profits. Those gamblers that can come in and drop large amounts of money at a time. A few whales a month can make or break an operating statement. This is why they comp rooms and roll out the red carpet.

They are also seasonal in nature.


The ELI5 answer is that they spend more than they bring in.

Question: What do radical terrorists hope to accomplish? What draws people into such groups as Al Qaeda?
Answer: Actually, Al Qaeda had a published 20-year plan. It called for engaging the infidel in countless small conflicts, dividing their forces and wearing them down economically and in public support by attrition. It hoped that the government would become oppressive in the face of the threat, resulting in more Muslims rising up and joining the cause, and more loss of support from the general public. And so on.

Wow. Lucky for us that TOTALLY didn't happen, eh?

Question: Why is a recent (less than a year) prescription required to order replacement contact lenses or glasses when it's OK to wear existing lenses or glasses for over a year?
Answer: I get my eyes checked every year and because of my health insurance, I only pay a small copay for new glasses/contacts. You should be wearing the best corrective lenses for your eyes so if you have not gone to see your ophthalmologist in over a year, you should. Its not really OK to wear existing ones if your eyes have changed in that time as they can lead to headaches and damaging your eyesight even more. Which is why you should make it a point to get your eyes checked at least once a year.

Question: if a human embryo isn't viable, by what mechanism does the body decide to terminate? What is it that goes "this isn't working, scrap it"?
Answer: A precise answer probably wouldn't be really eli5 but basically there will be some chemical signal if the embryo isn't viable on a cellular level. When cells die they release a lot of different chemicals that signal for other cells to recover and destroy the remnants. Also, when the embryo dies it stops secreting hormones that make the uterine wall grow into the placenta which will then start to die and detach like during a regular cycle. 

On the other hand, if there is some major genetic defect the blastocyst won't even implant into the uterine wall from the start and after a certain point if the fetus dies in utero the body won't necessarily terminate the pregnancy which can be very dangerous for the mother.

Question: why did detroit fail?
Answer: In the 50s and 60s, the United States was the only country producing reliable, quality vehicles meant for a middle class population. BMW existed in Germany, and Rolls Royce in Britain, but neither company made affordable vehicles. In the 70s and 80s, however, this changed as Japan and South Korea finished rebuilding and Toyota and Honda started producing reliable vehicles themselves. In response to this competition, Detroit did...nothing. In fact, their vehicles steadily decreased in quality as Asia's improved. The behemoths of Michigan were arrogant, and thought they would always have a market, no matter how inferior their products. American consumers proved them wrong.

Question: How prominent does a person have to be for killing them to be assassination rather than murder?
Answer: Assassination is murder but murder is not necessarily assassination.

Assassination is usually connected with killing someone for cause not personal or even necessarily related to the killer in any way. 

It tends to be a job usually done for others. The term "assassinated" is usually used with the killing of people of public notoriety or fame. An assassination is when the victim has been selected for the express purpose of achieving a political aim. 

There is a difference, for example Tupac was shot and that was murder but Archduke Franz Ferdinand was assassinted.

Question: songs getting stuck in your head
Answer: You can call it an "earworm".

We don't fully understand that yet, because it's part of the brain and we don't know the brain that well. And there're many theories about those, even others names than "earworm".

My thinks about it (i'm not a expert in the domain, not even am I good at it):

You can see the song as a puzzle in your memory (a dog face by example). You have a stimulus which remind you of a piece of the puzzle (the dog's eyes), which you liked especially. But because you don't have a good memory of the puzzle (because you don't have a good memory at all, or you didn't watch it well, you didn't learnt it by heart) you don't remember it all.
*(just note that earworms touch about 98% of the population, so you're not stupid or crazy, it's even pretty normal, and also you can have "earworm" (so not earworm in the case) with visual memory of something, like when you know you saw that guy but don't remember where)*
So you'll have to find others pieces of the puzzle to remember the dog's face (because with only eyes, you can't guess if it was a labrador or a german sheperd, or even a cat). In order to find those pieces you should remember when and where, the circumstances in which you got them (which can be hard because your brain can't learn everything and you didn't care about that moment when and where you saw the puzzle, only the puzzle you liked and especially the eyes, which is why you remembered them more than the rest).

Why it's annoying ? That's the difficult part and I guess it can be different in different people (but you can find a resemblance because we're all human and at more than 99% alike).
I would say because you liked that puzzle, or it was catchy at least, or maybe that puzzle reminded you of a piece of another puzzle which you liked a lot (your dog when you were a child, but you don't think about it mindful). So it's happy memory, and you would like to feel happiness again (listening to music can give you pleasure like sex or eating something you like). Or maybe you're a person with high vanity and you hate not remembering something because you're more clever than other people and you remember everything and not remembering it hurt your vanity and you do'nt like being hurt.

**tl;dr:** Human memory can't store a lot, you won't remember everything, even a catchy song, exept if you dedicate time to learn it. So you remember only the easiest parts (the rythm or the bass or the voice or the lyrics maybe) It can be annoying for multiple reasons, you don't like not remembering, you heard it during a pleasuring moment or the song itself is pleasuring and you would like to feel that pleasure again....

A source:
_URL_0_
_URL_1_

Question: Why do passengers have to open airplane windows during takeoff and landing?
Answer: It's so the flight personnel can see the engines/wings to ensure no issues.  
However, I've never heard an attendant say to open windows for landing/takeoff.

Question: Why do servers crash during a big launch? Wouldn't the company have countermeasures to prevent that before the launch?
Answer: It can be really hard to correctly estimate how much strain a big launch will put on servers. How many people will really be playing? If you could accurately predict that for each major launch, you have a very lucrative skill. Mostly it cannot be done. Oh, companies can get rough figures (part of the reason they love pre-orders, it helps them make a better guess) but you never truly know until you throw the servers online and it actually happens. And because servers costs money, management especially will be prone to lowballing the figure as much as they can. Might that lose them some customers? Yes, but it is harder to prove the value of the customers lost, than to prove overspending on servers.

Additionally, you have the issue that it isn't necessarily a smart business move to be able to handle every peak if that means your equipment will go unused most of the time. Look at Reddit at their servers. Yes, sometimes you will get a 'server not available' error if everybody is posting all at once. And yeah, that can be a bit obnoxious. But for Reddit, financially, it is better to have those short periods of annoyance, than to buy many more servers and have those sit idle a lot of the time because normal usage lies far below those rare peaks.

Question: Why don't American coins have numbers?
Answer: So back in the day a dollar was a silver certificate that you could exchange for a dollar worth of silver. Coins used to be made mostly of silver, so a quarter had 25¢ worth of silver and a dime 10¢. There used to be a half dime, but it was deemed to impractical because of how small it was, so the nickel came out in a larger size made with cheaper metal.

Question: Why did something that costs $45 dollars at Walgreens cost me almost $2000 at a hospital?
Answer: You're not just paying for materials.  You're paying for a whole host of services.  For one thing, a medical professional was available for you.  Having a staff of residents, nurses, doctors, etc. isn't cheap.  After all, they're not like potential cashiers or janitors where anyone can perform the job.  Rather these people spent decades of their lives and hundreds of thousands of dollars to get where they are.  Hiring them isn't cheap.  Not only that, but they're available around the clock.  If a hospital employs professionals to be on call at 3 in the morning, that's going to call for even higher salaries.  Additionally, there is maintenance of the facility itself.  Hospitals have to deal with utility costs (electricity, heat, etc.).  However, unlike a Walgreens, they also need to keep the building extra clean and certain things sterile.  (I guarantee you that a hospital room gets cleaned more thoroughly than any Walgreens.)  Not only that, but you used up a room in the building for some period of time.  Another relevant aspect of an ER is that people must be treated regardless of their ability to pay.  As a result, the hospital gets screwed over whenever an uninsured, poor person has a medical issue.  To make up for this, hospitals recoup money elsewhere.  The last thing I can think of is malpractice insurance.  Simply put, lots of sick people who don't recover sue the hospital.  This costs hospitals lots of money.  There are probably other factors as well.  

In short, it's expensive to maintain an ultra-clean building, treat patients regardless of their inability to pay, and have trained professionals available 24/7 year-round.

Question: Why does hot water feel significantly hotter on my face than on other parts of my body?
Answer: A more sensitive and dense pattern of nerves and minute vascularisation in your face. Your back/thigh/arm doesn't have the same amount or type of nerves as your face.

Your head is highly vascular as well, and is the warmest appendage from the core. You regulate your skull temperature quicker to keep your brain in its happy stasis. Feeling hotter heat on your face is a sensory warning to protect your noggin.

Question: If illicit substances such as drugs were legalised, what would become of the black market? Would there be demand for something else?
Answer: If there is way to make a profit the black market will find it.  Take cigarettes, they are legal but because of the high taxes placed upon them it is possible to buy them in places that have low or no taxes and then sell them to retailers in areas with high taxes making profit for the black marketeer and a little more profit for the retailer.  Legalized drugs would likely fall into a similar situation.  If there is a way to make a profit there are always people willing to skirt the law or openly break it to take that profit.

Question: Different Types of Baseball Pitches
Answer: Books have been written. Oversimplified:

Fastball: straight off the fingers. Ball rotates downward from 0 degrees to 180 degrees back toward the pitcher, point of view pitcher. Though it drops, as all pitches do because of gravity it can appear (optical illusion) to rise because spin (and resulting air pressure differential) causes it to drop less than expected.

Changeup: variety of spins. Main characteristic is that because it is thrown with a "loose" arm, or held back into the palm, or held with 2 opposed fingers or other grip deliberately inefficient in transferring power, travels much more slowly (10 mph avg) than the pitcher's standard fastball motion suggests so the batter tends to swing early.

Curveball (from right-hander): Thrown with a pronounced outward so the ball spins from nominal 270 degrees to 90 degrees pov pitcher. Air pressure creates motion down and away from a right handed batter. Because the power of the pitcher is partly sideways, the ball travels slower than a fastball but does not have the full deception of a changeup.

Knuckleball is held with the fingertips, not the knuckles, and "pushed" toward the plate with nominally no spin at all. The air in front of the ball is not aided in flowing around the ball by a spin so pressure builds up in front of the ball and resists it's forward progress and causes it to flutter. A slow pitch because the power of the pitcher is not efficient.

Slider is a hard curve thrown with a sharper but less pronounced side motion or/and even with the fingers offset slightly to the right  (right hand pitcher). Tends to have a sharper and later break and is usually more difficult for a batter to distinguish from a fastball.

Those are what you asked about. A fastball can be either a 2 or 4 seamer depending on how the ball is held and has different effects. Most fastballs are not exactly true 0 to 180 spin and so have "movement" one way or the other. Counter-intuitively a fastball thrown straight over the top (over the pitcher's head) (rarely thrown these days) *can't* be a straight rotation and is going to spin one way or the other depending on which way it slips off the fingers. A classic screwball (not used much these days) is rotated opposite to the curve and breaks from a rh pitcher towards a rh batter, opposite from a curve though usually with less break because it's awkward to get a full spin in that direction.

This is way over-simplified and illustrative of some principles; although very long, it's only a very basic start to build a discussion on.

Question: In theory, could an object with the mass of a grain of sand hitting the earth cause the same damage as a huge asteroid, if it were traveling at a fast enough velocity?
Answer: First of all, 

 >  Energy = Mass times Acceleration


This is wrong. Force=mass\*acceleration. Energy = 1/2 mass\*velocity^2 . 

To answer the question, if you were to ignore the atmosphere, *maybe*. In real life, earth is surrounded by an oxygen rich atmosphere. As soon as that grain of sand hits the atmosphere, it would compress the air a lot, immediately start burning, and then be gone. Super-high velocity very small meteoroids hit the atmosphere like this all the time. If they're bigger than a baseball, you see a neat little flash and call it a meteor. Smaller things just flash and gone. 

If the earth didn't have an atmosphere, then the answer is maybe, probably not. When the difference in size between two objects colliding gets to a certain point, you stop getting a collision and start getting a penetration. The result would be similar to shooting a bullet into the ground, there's no big "smash", it just drills a grain-of-sand-sized hole at the point of impact.

Question: why can company's like U.S. Cellular claim to have 4G coverage everywhere but in reality, only have it in very few places?
Answer: They absolutely never claimed that. That would be a complete lie. They always publish maps showing where they have 4G coverage.

Question: Why are so many Americans afraid of having voter id laws?
Answer: Some 10% of Americans don't have photo-ID, and that group tends to be the elderly and the poor

Question: What does a runny nose actually do for recovery, like from a flu?
Answer: It prevents additional viruses from entering. As the immune system is busy handling one virus it leaves the body open to attack from another virus. To prevent this there are several other defense mechanisms that turn on like increased mucus production, lack of hunger and tiredness. The flu virus and influenza virus does take advantage of this as it spreads though mucus that gets airborne after you cough. So it will also stimulate mucus production.

Question: Why do we no longer use supersonic commercial flight?
Answer: It's not profitable. This has been discussed several times today -- if you want more info, the search bar will help you out.

Question: How do DVD players remember where you left off on a movie you haven't had in your DVD player in years?
Answer: Some DVD players have storage.

They basically save a unique identifier that is tied to a specific disc image and time point in the film. If that disc is played again, the player knows what point to resume play from.

It's not really a matter of how long it's been since you last played the disc, but rather how many discs you have played since.

Your average player can remember about 10-15 discs at a time. So if you stop one halfway through, then proceed to watch 15 different movies, you won't be able to resume the first one anymore.

Then you get to more specialized players such as gaming consoles, which are computers with DVD drives. They have way more storage space/capabilities than a standalone player, so they'll store playback info for just about every movie you've ever played.

Question: What are sinkholes?
Answer: In general a sinkhole is caused by water underground eroding a hole below the surface, and when the surface becomes too heavy, it falls into the hole. The water can come from a number of different sources including underground rivers or aquifers. If the area you're in is known to have sinkholes, this can mean at any time the ground will basically fall in on itself causing serious damage to person or property. Depending on the conditions, you may have a lot of time to evacuate the area, or you might have just seconds before the ground isn't where it ought to be.

Question: Is it bad to hold back sneezes? Like pinching your nose to block the sneeze etc.
Answer: Every time I hold in a sneeze (like when I'm in a very quiet place and don't want to draw attention) I almost shit my pants.  

I literally can picture the sneeze working in reverse and trying to come out the other end.

Question: Positions and Payouts in The Big Short
Answer: Michael Burrey ended up walking away with $100 million personally and $700 million for his investors ($800 million total) which worked out to a 490% return on their investment.

The small guys, Geller and Shipley, turned $15 million into $120 million.

Mark Baum (real name is Steve Eisman) and his crew turned $100 million into $1.5 billion.

At the end, Mark Baum discovers that Morgan Stanley had been issuing Credit Default Swaps, the investment vehicle he was using to short the housing market.  Essentially, Morgan was on the losing side of the bet.  Mark was mad because his firm was a subsidiary of Morgan and now Morgan was going to lose billions and ironically could cause his firm to collapse as well as many of the banks who issued him credit default swaps were collapsing and might not be able to pay out what they owed Baum.  In the final scene, where Baum finally gives his guys to ok selling the position, he has a financial and a moral dilemma.  On one hand he is mad that the banks are only able to offer a fraction of what they owe him, but ends up settling for what they offer, still making over $1 billion.  The moral dilemma is that he was becoming what he had always hated, a Wall Street fat cat making billions off the suffering of the general population.

Question: How were the lights synchronized in Lady Gaga's halftime show?
Answer: The drones use Intel's realsense technology combined with infrared LEDs, allowing the drones to know where each other are and form a sort of wireless mesh network.

Once the drones know where they are and where they are supposed to be, you can program them.

Example of drone formation from 5 years ago: _URL_0_

Question: Why two signals at different frequencies can coexist?
Answer: It's just like sound.  If you press two keys on a piano, you hear a sound that is different from the sound either key makes by itself.  The combined waveform has components of each note's frequency.

A more selective receiver, the kind that only hear's one note, like the kind your radio uses, works differently than your ear.  It internally generates a signal with the one frequency it detects.  It uses a circuit called a phase locked loop to align itself with that frequency even when it's mixed with other signals.  Once it syncs up, it can detect when the signal is there, what it's amplitude is (for AM) or measure small chages in frequency (for FM).

Question: How many color combinations are possible with choosing 4 out of 7 colors if colors can be repeated and which formula is applied in this instance?
Answer: 7^^4 = **2041** of possible combinations

Someone correct me if I'm wrong, but this should be it

E: Wrong, it's **35**, see below

Question: What causes alkaline batteries to leak when mixed with other types of batteries?
Answer: All batteries of the same size pretty much always put out the same voltage regardless of what they're made of, so I think it may be a case of the other batteries may leak and they just copy-pasted the same safety warning.

Those cheap "Heavy Duty" batteries you see in dollar stores are I believe Carbon-Zinc or Zinc Chloride batteries, an older, cheaper battery technology that has a lower capacity, and, more importantly, leaks when it is fully discharged.

If you mix alkaline cells with these cheaper ones, because their capacity is lower, they will deplete first, but because the alkaline batteries will still have power left, your TV remote might still work, but one of the batteries is rotting it's guts out and is a out to spray acid all over your lap because, of course, you lost the battery cover.

Its most likely a warning because if you mix battend types, one type may start leaking when it dies, but you won't be warned by all the batteries running down.

Question: If I fall asleep at 12:30am and naturally wake up at 6:30am, will I be better or worse off then getting 2 more hours of sleep, but waking up to an alarm?
Answer: I heard it's best if you get up the first time you wake up naturally. It's your natural cycle. Majority of people need around 8 hours but there are people who just need 6.  some might  need 10, it depends. I've noticed myself that I'm less tired if I get up the first time I wake! You should try it :)

Question: How do computers remember the time even after they are shutdown/ plug pulled?
Answer: Tiny battery in a component known as an RTC, or real time clock.

These components use so little power the battery will usually last the lifetime of the computer.

Question: How can they tell how many people watched certain TV show?
Answer: They use Nielsen ratings. Certain households, called Nielsen families, participate in a program where they log everything they watch. These statistics are extrapolated to the whole country. So the viewership numbers you hear are estimates based off the number of Nielsen families that watched that show.

Question: Why can mayo remove water stains from finished wood?
Answer: The combination of fat and mild acids penetrates the top layer of the finish to replace the water with nourishing oil.

At least that's what it says on
_URL_0_

Question: Why do red objects and text appear blurrier than other colours in low-quality digital videos?
Answer: Digital sensors use what's called a [Bayer Filter](_URL_0_) over the sensor to filter out the colours.

As you can see in the images on that page, red pixels are only a quarter of the total number of pixels. This actually roughly matches the sensitivity of your eye, providing a more accurate colour balance.

A side effect of this is that pure red and pure blue can sometimes appear 'bitty'.

Question: The American transplant system
Answer: Well, this is a super broad question but I'll answer where I can.

1. Not all donations are taken from dead people. Those that are require the body to still be technically alive. Back in my surgery days (scrub tech) I was only unfortunate enough to have to assist in one harvest. The patient was a young male that had shot himself in his family home. EMTs rushed him to the hospital and he was declared dead on arrival (DOA). The gunshot was a head injury with less than an hours time upon infliction. Many organs can survive longer than that without a functional brain. The patient was rushed to the operating room and a crudely placed ventilator established oxygen flow to the body while any viable organs were removed and immediately taken by laboratory staff for rudimentary preservation. That is worst case scenario. Many patients simply go brain dead. Those can stay viable on a ventilator almost indefinitely.

2. Matching depends on the organs and the donor/recipient similarity. Things like ligaments or tendons without a lot of blood flow don't need to be typed as exactly. Bone segments often don't have to be typed at all since there is no living tissue left after a wash. More sensitive organs with more blood contact have to compensate for the possible reactions with the recipient immune system and blood cell antigens. Otherwise, the organ will be recognized as foreign and treated like an infection.

3. The recipient list is at least based on need of the recipient (disease the patient has and prognosis). Rarity of certain immune factors (type AB patients are ~1% of population) can slow down the process of finding suitable donors. Risks of an organ failing due to outside influences (alcoholics can't receive new livers because they *chose* to destroy the first one) also lower your position on the list.

I wish I could provide more, but especially since I'm not in medicine anymore, that's all I've got. Still feel free to ask any questions.

Question: It has been a few years since the big boom of the "Occupy" movement. Did any major changes result from those protests? It seemed like every major city had an "Occupy" at one point. Did we ever ever see a shift in wealth (99% vs 1%)?
Answer: No, there wasn't a shift of wealth. Occupy never managed to really push a mechanism for changing that. 

What one can say Occupy did accomplish in a very real way was to shift the national dialogue. Pre-Occupy very few people were talking about the wealth dispairity except in lofty academic circles. The whole 99% thing wasn't even in the common national discourse. Occupy made people aware of the issue, but wasn't able to effect much change on it.

Question: r/KotakuInAction and "Gamergate"
Answer: KIA and gamergate is anti SJW.

GamerGate began due to the accusation of a female game developer of sleeping around with game reviewers, which was partially true and partially false. So, the internet rioted and began to demand ethics in game journalism, while some attacked her directly on the internet. She accused her accusers of attacking her because she is a woman in a male dominated industry, claimed they were harassing her, and others came to her aid. The gaming journalist sites sided with them, and basically it has been like this for half a year now. GG claims it is trying to find ethics in journalism, anti - GG claims this is really a group trying to fight against women in the gaming industry.

r/kotakuinaction is the largest pro GamerGate subreddit.

My suggestion to you is to tread no further. I once got wound up in this conflict and now I see that the conflict in general is very vile basically cancer.

Question: why do we say aww when we see something cute or feel bad for someone?
Answer: Possibly because of social norms, in which we learn from others that we say "aww" when we see something cute or feel bad for someone. 

Perhaps the origin is that actually, humans react aggressively when we see something cute...perhaps there might be some explanation there...

Question: Why are all videos not available on mobile youtube?
Answer: Uploaders can choose for each of their videos whether or not to enable mobile viewing. Google implemented this choice because the mobile Youtube apps used to not be able to display ads, and some uploaders might not want to lose out on that ad revenue. That reasoning is obsolete now, since ads are shown during mobile viewing. Maybe Google hasn't removed it yet because there are other reasons. One guess that comes to mind is for channels like Vevo which have ads on the webpage all around the video player.

Question: How can businessmen get prosecuted for things like insider trading and securities fraud when their businesses have limited liability?
Answer: Limited liability protects members from debts, liabilities, and tort claims -- not crimes. For example, if you're a member of an LLC that goes bankrupt, you are not responsible for those debts. If someone slips on a puddle of coffee inside your office and sues you, you are not personally responsible for paying that judgement (if there is one). 

Limited liability does not protect you from being prosecuted for a crime, whether you committed the crime as an owner of the company or in your own interest.

Question: How do clouds stay up in the sky?
Answer: Air also has weight. Remember that clouds are totally gigantic. The amount of air that would take up that space actually weighs more than that. Since the cloud is lighter, it floats on top of the air. As the cloud gets denser, it can sink down. As it gets less dense, it can rise up. That's why fog, stratus clouds, cumulous clouds, and cirrus clouds hang out at different heights.

Question: Why drugs have the stigma that they possess today?
Answer: Well... it's obvious there have been enormous negative social impacts from drug use.  I think it'd be ridiculous to say it's "purely" because of corrupt governments or money.  Obviously the War on Drugs didn't help their public image, and some-not-quite-as-bad drugs were caught in the "drugs are terrible" crossfire, but it just doesn't make sense to discount the actual harmful issues they cause to society (as a general class, including legal drugs).

Question: Can some please explain to me how computer programming works?
Answer: I learned all of this shit in college but it's been a few years so forgive me if I'm rusty, but I'll break it down as best I can.  Let me know if any of this is too complicated, I'm going to avoid trying to use analogies and just explain how it all works as simply as possible.

You've done some programming so you're already ahead of the curve a bit.  Pretty much anything you'd have used (Java, C, C++, C#, whatever) is what's referred to as a "high-level" programming language.  High level programming languages cannot be directly interpreted by the computer's processor, so they must be translated into a low-level form that CAN be.  There are some low level languages that people can program in directly (such as "Assembly language"), but usually only in very specific circumstances (direct programmatic access to hardware without having to going through other layers, as an example).

Anyway, remember when you needed to "compile" your program before it could do anything?  Compilers simply translate high level programming languages into low level ones.  So your C# code to display "Hello world!" on the screen was being broken down and turned into a simpler language that the computer can understand, but you would have a tough time programming yourself.

Ultimately through the compilation process your code was turned into "machine code" or "machine language" or whatever you want to call it.  Basically, binary.  It's binary for a very specific reason: electricity.  That hardware sitting in the computer case runs off of electricity.  All of the little pathways that carry it all over the circuit boards in there.  Between the processor and the RAM, etc.  So how does this all tie together?  Binary is a 1 or a 0, which translates to the presence or absence of voltage.  Something is being charged or it isn't.

Processors have architectures (for example, x86) that basically tell it what do to when certain patterns of 1's and 0's arrives to it.  It gets a certain pattern of voltage spikes and will always do the same thing when that pattern arrives to it.  In another architecture (like PowerPC - remember the old Macs?) these same patterns will tell it to do something completely different.  You can go from one architecture to another, though, that's what an "emulator" is (your NES did not have an x86 processor).

If you want to get into how processor architecture works you'll delve into logic gates.  Basically allows for manipulation of these 1's and 0's to achieve a desired result.  One very easy example to understand is an "OR" gate.  The logic is: If A *OR* B is 1, the result is 1.  So 0+0=0, 0+1=1, 1+0=1, and 1+1=1.  You string enough of these into one another (the result of one gate is the A or B for another gate) you can create a very complex series of possibilities.

Think of processors like really complicated calculators.  You feed in something you understand (5+10) and in the background it will break this down into something it understands and spit out a result to you in a way that you understand (15).  Perhaps you want to be really clever (because you'll forget "15" later) and you hit that MEM+ button to store a result into memory, so you can later use it in another calculation.  This is more or less what's happening with computer memory, but it's done automatically instead of you having to explicitly hit a button.  When the results of a processor's commands are finished, it has to do something with them (it can't remember) so it stores them into memory.

RAM (random access memory) is basically a cluster of things that can hold voltage, on a stick.  There is a direct path between the memory and the processor since the processor will be frequently reading from and writing to memory.  Memory holds the data directly in a form that the processor can read directly, being parts that hold voltage on them (1's) and spots without any voltage (0s').  When memory loses any external power source (you lose power to the PC in a storm outage or something) you lose anything you have in memory (since now everything in your memory is effectively all 0's).

As a side note about storage, the reason you can permanently lose things during power outages is because EVERYTHING (no exceptions!) must be loaded into memory before the processor can do anything with it.  Nothing ever gets directly read from a hard drive.  Data has to go from the hard drive to memory to be loaded or from memory to the hard drive to be saved permanently.  If something was loaded into memory and modified but then never saved back to the hard drive and the power is then cut to memory, you've lost your changes.

So that's pretty much it.  Your "print text to screen" command in that programming language was compiled, broken down into binary, and then fed into the processor where it recognized the patterns given to it and acted accordingly.  Phew, hope I didn't screw anything up. :D

Question: Why Does My Spoon Taste Metallic After It Touches Aluminum Foil?
Answer: Some of the aluminum oxide, which **always** coats the aluminum, rubs off. It tastes metallic because you are tasting aluminum rust.

Question: How can our brains allow us to kill ourselves?
Answer: They try really hard to stop us, but sometimes they're too damaged.

Question: Why is a president commenting on a judicial procedure not a violation of the separation of powers?
Answer: He is allowed to comment all he likes. He is even allowed (and often expected) to fight judicial procedures in court.  What he can't do is order his executive branch to directly violate the court findings.

Question: The inclusion of "under God" in the Pledge of Allegiance during 1954.
Answer: one of the main points of propaganda against the soviet union was that the soviet union was atheist and godless, while the US was strong under the protection and guidence of god. 

The pledge of allegiance was written by a baptist flag salesman to increase sales anyways.

Question: Why do I often get calls from random numbers with nobody on the other line?
Answer: They're likely scammy telemarketing calls.  Outbound call centers typically use a "power dialer" that calls a bunch of numbers at once, and if the line picks up, instantly connects it to an operator.  In legit call centers, they're tuned so that you rarely get enough people picking up at once that there are no operators available.

But scammy telemarketers?  They don't care, they want 100% of the scammers working 100% of the time, and if that means you get woken up 3 times to a dead line, so be it.

Question: How can you have multiple Channels on the same frequency!(e.g. In Walkie-Talkies)?
Answer: On the [Family Radio Service](_URL_2_), which is the more common radio band as it does not require an operator's license, you have multiple channels spaced 12.5 kHz apart. On each of those channels, the radio uses something called CDCSS ([Continuous Digital-Coded Squelch System](_URL_1_)) or CTCSS ([Continuous Tone-Coded Squelch System](_URL_0_)) to provide the sub-channels you're talking about.

How this works is actually fairly simple; in addition to the audio that you can hear, the radio adds a specific digital code (in the case of CDCSS) or an inaudible sound (CTCSS) that the radio circuitry picks up and uses to ignore transmissions that do not use the code  or tone that the radio is listening to.

Question: Why are most road kill on the side of the road?
Answer: State trooper move the carcass to aide of the road if it's blocking or endangering  traffic.   Later on, animal services comes by and takes the carcass if animals haven't eaten it already.    If healthy itll be butchered and donated to local animal shelters

Question: What are the pros and cons of "right to work" laws?
Answer: >  A "right-to-work" law is a statute in the UnitedStates that prohibits union security agreements, or agreements between labor unions and employers, that govern the extent to which an established union can require employees' membership, payment of union dues, or fees as a condition of employment.

Pros: employees that don't want to be in a union cannot be forced to as a condition of their employment.

Cons: The functional power of a union is reduced. Strikes are less powerful, as nonunion employees can still work without fear of retribution.

Question: Why are some apples crisp and some mushy, even within the same variety?
Answer: Because all apples are inferior to honey crisp! But probably age picked. They all just get jumbled up together so you could have apples picked one time, and apples from two months earlier in the same bag or batch

Question: Are animals less prone to mental disabilities due to evolution and the 'survival of the fittest' mechanism?
Answer: Survival of the fittest is something of an old term, and not terribly accurate. Closer to reality is 'survival of the good enough.' If a species has evolved a heritable high likelihood of mental instability to the point that it can't function, then it is going to be hard for that species to survive. So you'd expect to see natural selection not reward that trend. 

If you mean 'relative to humans' rather than in general, we'd have the same effect on us. There are a lot of people, and a lot of them are mentally stable.

Question: . Why does white text/black background on a monitor make my vision wonky? But on tv or a movie screen it doesn't really bother me...
Answer: Most text on your monitor is very small compared to the size typically used on movies or TV shows. The clarity of small fonts is much more affected by the slight "smearing" effect of white on black. An extra 1mm of white doesn't hurt the clarity much when a character is 25mm wide.

Question: Why can't we just throw all of our trash into an oceanic trench? Wouldn't it be recycled back into the earth?
Answer: Trash is all sorts of crazy stuff, including oils that float, plastic bits that float, paper bits that float, wood bits that float and even cans with a little air in them that float. It's also filled with air. And air floats.

So you'd need to seal it and get all the air out of it to keep it down there.  So you Wall-E big cubes of garbage as best you can and seal them somehow. 

Now you have to deliver it to the dock, and then load it on a vessel, and then pay that vessel huge amounts of money to transport it to that trench because most are pretty far away from land. 

Now you're over the trench. The bottom of the trench is way way down there where the water pressure is super high. Drop a Wall-E cube.

As it sinks, its irregular shape causes it to tumble and drift off. So you build a giant cable that you hook your delivery vessel and cubes to to they it drop down straight. Delivery system complete...

But as it falls, the pressure on the cube rises, and any remaining air (because you can't get it all) dramatically increases the chance it's going to rupture if not just float. It does, and all the air and those lovely oils and other chemicals squirt out, and with them comes plastic bits and other pollutants as your case's integrity fails. 

A few hours later there's a minor but potently stenchy oil slick under your vessel and that giant floating garbage patch in the middle of the ocean gets just a little bit bigger, and your picture's on a dartboard in Greenpeace offices all over the globe.

Question: Is eating too fast that bad for your body ?
Answer: Yes. Eating too fast increases the likelihood of choking, and vastly increases the incidence of stomach upset and gastric reflux.

Question: How exactly does the French Foreign Legion work?
Answer: It works pretty similar to that of any other countries military service; although the enlistment criteria is different. Usually a specific countries military will only taken citizens of that respective country. The FFL differs in that it will take recruits from pretty much any country, with a criminal history. The initial 'recruitment' process is very simple and if you were to join it's simply about turning up to a recruitment center, say Marseilles, and off you go to do your fitness and medical tests. If you pass you'll then be shipped of to basic training under a 5 year term. At the time of signing your contract you will have been given the opportunity to undertake a new identity or keep your existing identity. This is part of a tradition that the FFL still does and is often romanticized by multinationals that have a tarnished criminal record. If you choose to take the new identity route then you will not be allowed to take leave (out of France) during the 5 year period. If you keep your identity then you will be afforded international leave. Once you have passed basic training you will have the choice to join one of 10 units ranging from artillery, admin to special forces.

At the end of your 5 year service - you will be offered the chance to leave the FFL with your new identity and become a naturalized French Citizen. A new life, clean slate - so to speak. 

The FFL serves in a great ranging amount of countries and has had a part to play in an equally great ranging amount of conflicts. 

The FFL is not for the faint hearted and is a reputable force, although there is a typical critique from equal or regiments, forces that have a more advanced training. This is something that happens across the world and opinion differs on how 'elite' certain regiments are. 

Traditionally the FFL was a safe haven for criminals and literally an opportunity to start their lives afresh - inline with my above statement however, a lot of recruits underestimated what was required of them and went AWOL and absconded. Only to further go on the run. 

Nowadays you cannot join the FFL if you have commited murder and/or are wanted by INTERPOL. Although the FFL have stopped serious offenders from joining they still have pretty lax guidelines when it comes to criminal offences. 

Obviously whilst doing you service you'll be afforded accommodation, food and equipment. After 4 months of training you can leave base in your free time - you'll get 45 holidays a year and the pay, is, well - maybe not so good.  

Your question is pretty broad and there are plenty of informational sites detailing the actuall history of the legion. Bears Grylls did a fantastic documentary and, of course, there's the official website. None of which are linked here as I am on my phone. 

Hope my brief overview helps. 

SOURCE - Had a breakdown and nearly joined the FFL

Question: Why is horizontal head-shaking an expression of saying 'No' while the vertical head-shaking is for 'Yes'?
Answer: It's arbitrary. Most of the world uses this system, but there are actually a few countries and cultures that do the opposite, as well as some that have neither system.

Question: Did the holocaust have any lasting effects in the make-up of non Jewish people in Germany and elsewhere?
Answer: Before we say anything else here, it's important to note that there are many Jewish people who are blonde with blue eyes, and many Germans who do *not*!

*That* said, here's the thing. *Tens of millions* of people died during WWII - 3% of the total population of the entire world, at the time. The holocaust is a part of that, but Germany was devastated by that war, and limiting the rippling effect to just the holocaust itself is probably not very feasible.

Question: How will the newly imposed China tarrifs affect the average consumer?
Answer: China's tariffs shouldn't directly affect US consumers, it only affect the people who produce those goods (soybean farmers, car manufacturers, etc), who will find it harder to export their goods.  Trump's tariffs *will* affect US consumers though.  Everything Trump puts a tariff on will become more expensive for you.  

The worry is that Trump will tariff some things, then china will retaliate, then Trump will retaliate with *more* tariffs, until there's a full blown trade war.

Question: How is it possible for babies to cry so loudly for so long?
Answer: Babie's throats aren't fully developed yet. When a baby cries, it's vocal chords don't touch, much like the false chord gruttal screaming technique you hear in a lot of metal songs (look up "the black dahliah murderer" or "whitechapel" for example"), where the sound is not profuced by vibration of the vocal chords but the epiglottis. This reduces a lot of friction and thereby the stress the voice is put under. As we age we learn ne ways of communication, utilizing our vocal chords, tongue and lips to shape more distinct sounds, aka language.

Question: What did people do to for snake bites and staph infections and such before modern medicine? Did they just die?
Answer: Did you ever play Oregon trail? Friggen snake bites killed my family constantly. 

Yes, many more people died from diseases and wounds that today are easily treatable.  Aside from antibiotics and the like, sanitation also played a large role.

Question: what is happening to this ingot of tin to cause the ringing sound?
Answer: Like every material the metal changes its size due to the temperature change. Because the temperature does not change evenly parts of the metal ingot change more than others tension builds up.

It seems that this tensions leads to a point where internal cracks form, and and this motion lets parts of the metal vibrate. A way to find out what happens exactly would be to tap the metal ingot and listen to the resulting sound (does it sound similar?) and then examining a cross cut of the ingot under a microscope to look for features where the ingot is not solid, but has parts that can vibrate freely.

Question: What is that deep, almost primal feeling of wonder, longing, and even sense of place we get when we see pictures of open landscapes or the natural vastness and beauty of earth?
Answer: It's probable that it's a remnant from our evolution. Ancient humans who felt the same wonder and attraction to lush, fruitful landscapes simply were more fit to survive, and passed that 'instinct' to further generations who also were more fit because of it. 

Compare it to an attraction to barren, dead landscapes. Ancient humans who were attracted to homes there may have struggled to find food and sustenance compared to humans drawn to life, fresh water, and greenery

Question: What is happening when you mentally picture (for lack of a better term) a person or scene from your memory?
Answer: The only comment here was removed, disappointing.

The best explanation I can give is that we simply don't fully understand how the brain works yet to provide a solid answer.

It's common that we can not only remember faces and places in this way, but we can play a song in our head and hear it even though we aren't actually hearing it, we can even change it a little, and this subconscious audio sometimes even plays off of real ambient noise like an air conditioner. Smells are a little harder but they're also linked to taste. However, the why of all this is most likely unexplainable at this time.

In a physical sense, neurons are firing from long term memory into conscious thought or recall. There's chemical and neuroelectrical reactions going on. An imagined scenario, like a guitar player imagining he's on stage for a million people, is probably more complex a process but likely conforms to a similar pattern. Again though, what is actually happening when you conjure mental images and sounds isn't completely known.

Sorry I couldn't provide a more in-depth answer.

Question: How do people shave in prison?
Answer: And before disposable razors were invented, prisoners used locking safety razors like [this](_URL_0_). The guards would put in the blade and use the cylinder on the right to tighten the razor together.

Question: What is stopping commercial planes from being drone-piloted?
Answer: There are two main reasons:

1) For emergencies. Automatics can handle every routine task on an aeroplane. They can even handle a selection of emergencies that the designer thought to take into account. But when things go off-script, automatics don't know what to do.

Think about the double engine failure in New York that resulted in the aircraft landing in the Hudson with no injuries or fatalities - there's no way that any automatic system could possibly have assessed all the options, and decided that the Hudson was the best place to be.

2) Because passengers wouldn't want it. Talking about emergencies is all very good. But the fact is that emergencies are very rare, and human error occurs in aviation, and causes far more accidents than are caused by technical problems. There really is very little technical reason why pilotless aircraft couldn't be operating on commercial flights already. But most passengers would be really, really uneasy about this. Airlines know this, which is why airlines are not pushing for pilotless commercial flight.

Question: Why does climbing a tree, or a ladder, or any steep height seem fine going up, but much more scary coming down?
Answer: * you can see where you are going and what you are doing better going up that down
* if you run into a problem going up, all you have to is let gravity bring you back to where you just were...going down, you have to overcome gravity if you change your mind and want to go back to a safe spot

Question: why do some products in stores have a "if found at another retailer, please call...." sticker on them?
Answer: Generally, they are to discourage you from buying something from Retailer A and then turning around and reselling it through Retailer B for more money.  For example, buying some stuff from Walmart during a crazy sale and re-selling it on Amazon later for a profit.


This has some info:

_URL_0_

Question: How illegal immigrants can be appointed to government positions, get driver's licenses, etc.
Answer: Legitimately they can't and it is against the laws. However, currently, immigration laws in this country mean nothing.

Question: If I have an understanding of law, why can't I practice it without having a law degree (US)?
Answer: If someone hires you to be their lawyer, they're hiring you because they don't know or understand the law. Since they don't know or understand the law, they don't really have any way of evaluating whether or not you know the law. They just have to take your word for it. This would make it very easy to fool anyone about how skilled you are at being a lawyer and the person who hired to fake lawyer would be screwed by the time they found out.

In order to make sure that people know they're getting a lawyer of at least a minimum competency, you have to be admitted to the bar to represent someone else. Since you have to prove you at least know a good amount of law to join the bar, everyone who is a member is assumed competent to represent someone else.

This is pretty much the reason for all professional licensing - most people don't know enough about certain areas to be able to tell whether a professional they're hiring is competent or not. If it were easy to tell, then the topic would probably be much simpler and there wouldn't be a need to hire a professional. A regulatory body can license people as a way to guarantee to the public that people who are licensed actually know what they're talking about.

Take a doctor, for example. If a doctor runs tests on you and tells you that you need an expensive surgery, you probably don't have the knowledge to say whether the doctor is correct or not. You could get a second opinion, but that involves hiring another doctor. You probably trust the doctor, though, because they've been licensed and vetted by other doctors.

It's also worth noting that you can always represent yourself. You can also technically practice law without having a degree - you just have to a member of the bar. A few states let you join the bar without a degree, though usually you have to apprentice at a law firm first. But that's a holdover from earlier times and is rare to see these days.

Question: Are their more Android vulnerabilities nowadays or are we just hearing about them more?
Answer: There will always be vulnerabilities in software, but like Windows, Android is the biggest target, so it will probably get the most publicity. However, like Windows, there are some cut corners in order to get that install base IMO, and it's a bit worse now with the tie-ins with carriers and OEMs. 

I'm a bit concerned though, as a Google services/Nexus 5 owner, how much does Google really care about their own security. They don't shy away from throwing stones at other companies, primarily MS, but they don't seem to take security as serious with Android, as Apple does with iOS, eg the recent Stagefright patch that doesn't work.

Question: How do bookies at an event keep track of wagers when everyone's shouting at them and handing them money?
Answer: It's overly dramatized in movies. You can't actually just shout at a bookie and throw them money and expect your bet to be recorded.

Question: What's the difference between 2$ HDMI cables and 50$ HDMI cables?
Answer: You being ripped off.

If an HDMI cable works it works. There is no difference in quality from a $2 one to a $50 one. At best the price difference may mean they used a higher quality material to make them and they will last longer under heavy use.

Question: Why are half of the square pockets in waffle makers smaller than the other half?
Answer: Your experience isn't typical. Do you have a picture of these waffle irons?

Question: Why so many police officers accused of crimes either get light sentences or have their charges dropped entirely, and how this relates to police unions.
Answer: Often times its the jury that deals with this situation (I have been on the jury of a case with a police officer.) Once the evidence is presented it's usually not the officers fault. 

A shaky video comes out of a police officer shooting a subject. Then during court you learn that the subject was on hallucinogens and waving a gun earlier. You hear from 35 witnesses about the situation and what really went down. You hear from medical experts on what the hallucinogen could cause and the dangers of it with someone with a gun. You hear from gun experts and the police testimonies involved. All of which without the history of anyone involved so you don't create any mental biases. 

In most cases it isn't the police officer's fault. 

Many cases police officers get it rough. I have one case saved, I can grab it later. Of a guy getting his license out of his car and getting shot, he dropped to the floor and asked the police officer why he got shot and he said "I thought you were getting a gun." That police officer ended up with 20 years in prison, thats more than an attempted murderer will get in many cases. So sometimes police, when it is actually their fault, will get it much more harsh than a regular person. 

edit: _URL_0_

Also know jury doesn't decide punishment, but they are given certain charges to determine guilt. In the case with police they may be given 5 different types of murder charges to decide which one it is. With the lowest being no punishment and the highest being 25 to life. But those punishments are still determined by the judge and the jury only gets to determine the charge's accuracy.

Question: How do we determine how "large" (in bytes) a genome is?
Answer: In genetics, Mb doesn't mean megabytes, it means megabases.  DNA is formed as a sequence of bases (usually A, C, T, or G), and that's the unit of size that they use, so the sunfish has a genome that's about 730 million bases long.

Question: Why does Tea and Coffee taste bad when it's watered down, even though they're mostly water?
Answer: Coffee and tea are a specific ratio of water to "stuff;" the stuff is the oils and other chemicals from the coffee beans or tea leaves.

So when you brew a cup of tea, the box of tea will tell you "Steep this tea bag in X water for Y minutes."  That's like a recipe - it makes sure there's the right amount of stuff vs. water.

Pouring extra water in there messes up that ratio, and it tastes worse.  Just like if you put too much flour in a cake or too much water in a soup.

Question: The link between allergy medicine and dementia.
Answer: It probably is a true link, however this study looked at older populations, who are at higher risk of Alzheimer's than younger patients. Alzheimer's disease is associated with degeneration of the basal nucleus of meynert in the brain, which provides cholinergic input to a certain part of the basal nuclei that are involved in memory and emotion. The thought is that an anticholinergic agent may expedite this process, but it is likely that it would only happen if you are older. If you're any age under 60, I wouldn't worry about it. 

This is similar to the link between ibuprofen and other NSAIDS and peptic ulcers. If you don't use NSAIDs chronically, or if you don't have a predisposition to peptic ulcers, they're fine to use. However, if you have problems with that, you need to find an alternative source. 

If you're concerned about it, I would recommend switching to an H1 receptor blocker (claritin, zyrtec, allegra, etc...) or to a low dose corticosteroid (e.g. prednisone, flonaise). These medications are not anticholinergics, and work through a different mechanism.

Question: What happens when a company buys a competitor but keeps the name?
Answer: Branding is important, and time will tell if those two brands have more value separately or together.  A smart acquisition keeps its options open and gathers market intelligence over time to inform such decisions.  

Yes, they've eliminated a competitor.  They've also expanded their business, now with two distinct customer bases: the traditional Allstate and the online eSurance. Each surely had lessons to learn from the other.  Potential for a 1+1=3 situation.  

A business operation has a certain amount of overhead.  Combining businesses has potential for economies of scale once they figure out how to merge their systems.  (SO much easier said than done.). This is potential for 1+1=1.5 ... eliminating redundancies in overhead operations.

Question: Why am I tired all day long, every day of my life, but as soon as 8pm roles around I feel like a frat boy with an eight-ball and a keg of Naty Ice.
Answer: It could be something simple as your daily routine. What time do you wake up? What do you do for a living? Are you active and do you work out? How many hours of sleep do you get a night?

Or it could be an actually disorder: _URL_0_

Basically, it could be a number of things. If you're really concerned however, I advise you go see a doctor. They might be able to help you out better. I know that's really not the answer you may have wanted, but trust me, do not self diagnose yourself with conditions.

Question: Why do aquatic mammals swim with their fins moving up and down, but fishes swim with their fins moving side to side?
Answer: The most basic reasoning would be bone structure. An aquatic mammal still has bones in the same general shape as ours, meaning that their shoulders work a lot like ours do. Up and down and using them as rudders works well with the bone structure. Its the same with penguins. Fish also share a common bone structure with us, but it is so far removed from terrestrial animals that its barely recognizable. Fish limbs are the original limbs for swimming. They then evolved for walking on land, then in the case of aquatic mammals or birds, re-evolved for ocean life.

Question: What is the clear fluid that fills a bilster (from heat or pressure) and what is it's purpose?
Answer: It's usually plasma, which is the liquid part of blood that the red and white cells are suspended in. It helps the healing process of the underlying damaged skin.

Question: What is Black Body radiation and how does it work?
Answer: Everything that has a temperature will self-radiate by the emission of electromagnetic waves, e.g. light. The name "black body" radiation comes from the idea that if you have a perfect absorber, a body that absorbs 100% of all light in the entire spectrum that hits it (hence, "black body"), the said body will emit light not by reflecting incoming light but by spontaneous emission. This emitted light is referred to as "black body radiation".

Question: Why does it take so long for finger/toenail fungus to be cured and go away?
Answer: Nail beds are moist, warm, and dark. Fungi must like this. It's a very good growing medium for fungi?

Question: What is SegWit? What are its advantages and disadvantages?
Answer: Segregated Witness (or Segwit for short) was an update deployed recently on Bitcoin and a few other cryptocurrencies. Without getting into the nitty gritty details, it fixes a bug known as transaction malleability, which prevented doing some things with bitcoin such as payment channels. Along the way, it also somewhat accidentally allowed for a fix to decrease the amount of bytes that a transaction counts towards Bitcoin's blocksize limit, allowing for more transactions and less fees. This is all opt in, to opt in you need to use Segwit enabled wallet/address. 

This has no disadvantages aside from it breaking a certain Bitcoin mining "cheat" called asicboost which affects very few people.

Question: Why do movies about modern times often include outdated technology (e.g., paper  &  pen, dedicated camera, typewriter, etc.)?
Answer: Paper and pen is not outdated as of yet. Many if not most still use them daily.

Question: How do wet dreams cause one to cum if there is no sexual pleasure in reality?
Answer: Sexual pleasure is mostly in the mind. Your dreams are fully capable of providing that. What little contact is needed for wet dreams is provided by your underwear/other clothing, sheets, or actually masturbating in your sleep.

Question: Is looking through someone else's glasses on similar to their vision with their glasses off?
Answer: I would think it could but in the inverse direction, as long as you have perfect vision. In other words, say you have 20/20 vision. You put on your friend's -3.25 glasses, meaning they are myopic. Wearing glasses with -3.25 brings them to zero but since you're already there, your vision will correct to +3.25 *edit: which would give you nearsightedness*. (I'm not an optometrist and am purely speculating but think this is how it works.)

Question: How do criminals get away when being interviewed in documentaries on National Geographic and such?
Answer: The police cannot assume what is on "TV" is true. Neither should you.  It could easily be staged or scripted. In order to become evidence, a man or woman would have to testify in court that everything on the video is true. That would make the film makers job very difficult in the future, so you can imagine they aren't running to court to testify.

Question: How is medical marijuana legally distributed?
Answer: Marijuana is prohibited under federal law, but state law is an entirely different matter. If a state allows the prescribed use and regulated sale of marijuana, then it is not a crime in the eyes of any state official. Federal law enforcement agencies, however, are able to enforce federal anti-drug laws, but they mostly have the courtesy to allow regulated medical marijuana dispensaries to operate. Of course, it varies greatly based on location and local laws/federal agency policy.

About the doctors' licensing, marijuana has known medical benefits, and it's prescription as an alternative form of medication is valid.

Question: Whats the differences between 'Lieutenant' and 'Leftenant'?
Answer: No difference; the former is the American/Canadian pronunciation while the other is found more in Britain and its former colonies. They're both spelled "Lieutenant."

Question: What all this Amy's Bakery drama is about?
Answer: Amy's Baking Company was featured on Kitchen Nightmares, a show in which Chef Gordon Ramsay visits failing restaurants and whips them into shape with his culinary and business acumen to rescue them from closing.

He visited Amy's Baking Company, a spot in Arizona owned by a husband and wife duo who were convinced that they were besieged by some kind of plot by "Yelpers" to flood them with bad reviews out of spite as some sort of cyber bullying attack.

The service was slow, the food was bad, and Gordon identified the same basic issues he finds in most every restaurant. The owners, though, refused to take the criticism and screamed at Gordon, their staff, their customers, and each other. 

Throughout the course of the episode it was revealed that the chef had no training, the food was frozen but marketed as fresh, the owners would pocket servers' tips, only the husband was allowed to access the cash register (leading to accusations on reddit of money laundering), the restaurant has gone through 100+ wait staff/bussers in a year, and the husband would threaten people with violence for sending their food back. It was like watching a comedy skit about the worst restaurant people could think of.

Gordon made the decision to cut the episode short and walk out, since every time he said something the wife/chef would react incredibly poorly and scream about being oppressed/bullied. 

Once the show hit the air, people started flooding the restaurant's facebook page with fake reviews. The owners responded as poorly as you'd expect and continued threatening, cursing, and invoking god against the "yelpers" and "reddits" terrorizing them.

All in all it was a glimpse of two people with mental illness and how they react when the entire world seems to decide to fuck with them. Hope that helps.

Question: How does glass become sea-glass?
Answer: It becomes smooth after 20-50 years of being tumbled by waves and tides, in contact with abrasive saltwater and rough sand.  It's possible because sand is of similar hardness to glass (being made from similar materials), the sand is able to wear away the glass. 

"Fake" sea glass is fairly easy to make in much less time.  Usually glass is placed in a rock tumbler or treated with acid to produce the smooth edges and frosted appearance.

Question: How does something go from nothing to a brain?
Answer: If you want to make a brain from scratch, you must first invent the universe.

Question: Quantum physics grad student Ben Ames, wins Alan Alda's 'The Flame Challenge' by most effectively communicating the complexity of a flame to children in his animated video.
Answer: >  First, we need something big and black like

oh no

 >  this pitchfork

Oh.

Question: Daylight Savings Time. I get why we set the clocks forward.. but why, in Autumn, do we set them back an hour? Is there something gained by having an extra hour of darkness in the Winter? Why don't we just keep time at "Daylight Savings Time" year-round?
Answer: Historically, people like to think of Noon as being when the sun is at its highest point in the sky. Under DST, you're an hour off from that.

Question: What exactly am I paying domain registrars for?
Answer: There are some administrative that need to be paid for (staff, office costs, hosting their own website).

But mainly there needs to be some fee involved otherwise there's nothing stopping people from registering millions of domains, just for fun.

Question: What does it look like when a hacker gains remote access to a computer? Is it literally just a mirror of the victim's desktop?
Answer: It depends. 
Computers can only do one thing - run programs. And "program" is just data and some calculations applied to it. So when someone says "hacker gained access to a computer" it means that hacker is either able to access data on that computer or is able to run programs there. Or both.

In many cases hackers only need data, like your photos, or credit card numbers. In this case it's enough for them to simply have a console where they could type something meaning "copy that data from victim's to my computer".

However, also in many cases, in order to get access to data, hacker would need some program to be run on your computer. Which could be planted via viruses, trojans and other type of malware.
Now this program may be as simple as something capturing all your key presses and sending them to the hacker, or as complicated as actual Remote Desktop (screen mirroring, mouse control, access to disks etc.). 

In most cases Remote Desktop capabilities are not needed (unless hacker's goal is to sit and watch what you're doing), and since it's a more complicated thing to set up, it's a waste of hacker's time, so they don't use it (unless it's the easiest way to get in, which means your system's security is in really bad shape).

Question: Will a people with lighter skin tones gradually darken after generations (1k+years) of living in places like the middle east or Africa? Would a people with a darker skintone gradually "Lighten" after generations living up north in Europe or Siberia?
Answer: If everyone with the unfavorable skin tone for their region died before reproducing, then yes. In the modern world, no. We have technology that exists to shield ourselves from the harmful effects of the sun for lighter skinned people, and we have ways to replace nutrients lost from lack of sunlight exposure for darker skinned people. So, even if you lived in a region your skin isn't suited for, you'd probably still get to reproduce and pass on your genes, so evolution doesn't work in this case.

Question: Why is it so hard to clean up radioactive waste like Chernobyl? Why hasn't it disappeared on it's own after such a long time?
Answer: Cockroaches can withstand higher levels of radiation because they lack soft tissues, which are the most vulnerable to radiation poisoning.

Question: How does the 'Skylanders' Video game work?
Answer: I would assume RFID chips in the figurines so the game knows which ones are being used.

Question: Why does no one like Internet Explorer?
Answer: Internet explorer must be loved in some circumstances. It is the world's most popular browser for downloading Firefox and Chrome.

So remember, everything has its uses.

Question: Why do people use terms like right-wingers, left-wingers, liberals, and conservatives instead of republican/democrat?
Answer: Theyre not the same thing. 

Right wing and left wing are pretty similar to democrat / republican, left wing being democrat, right wing being republican.

Liberal tends to mean you take a liberal understanding of the constitution. You treat it more like a living document that can be changed and have an open ended view of some of the things it says. Conservative on the other hand would generally believe that it is written in stone. They say changes shouldnt be made to it. 

There are conservative democrats who support democratic party ideals, yet who believe the constitution is pretty much in stone, and there are liberal republicans who would like to rewrite half the constitution to fit their agenda.

Conservative is likely one who doesnt want things to change. In a lot of cases, thats how republicans are. They dont want gay marriage legalized, they dont want drugs legalized, they dont want any of this new generations stuff to come about and change the way theyve been living and doing business their whole life.

Young people are often the ones coming up into an old system and theyre the ones who have a problem with it and want to change it. As it stands, democratic ideals are currently the ones that say things like lets legalize gay marriage, etc. Thats what the younger people want, so a lot of younger people (not all) are generally left leaning or democrats. 

It is possible to be a right leaning democrat. That would mean in general, you see yourself as a democrat, but you also agree with a few republic issues.

When you explain it, especially when you read that last sentence, you start to realize why the two party system is absurd. The idea that a person is going to fit into one of two categories with every single belief is stupid. Politics would be much better if we could all just ignore parties and look at everyone as an independent. 

From the perspective of a candidate though, having a party is really sort of essential. A democratic candidate virtually guarantees themselves the votes of every democrat out there. The party system hurts us as voters since it forces us to lean one way or the other and eliminates independent candidates from serious runs

Question: Regarding the 2020 Olympics, how will Olympic Karate look different from Olympic TKD?
Answer: It's like boxing vs. kickboxing. They are similar, but one allows kicks and the other doesn't. It's a small change, but it completely changes the strategy. Muhammed Ali was one of the best boxers of all time, but I don't think he would have been a very good kickboxer. The same applies to Taekwondo and Karate. Taekwondo focus on kicking so fighters stand slightly farther apart and try to jump and kick the other person in the head. Kicking gives more points, and it's harder to effectively land a punch. So Taekwondo uses hands as a backup if they happen to get close and need to space back out. Karate focuses more on punches, chops, and strikes. The fighter stand closer together and use their legs as more of a back up. 

You could say that these are still pretty similar, but the little differences matter. Sprinting 100M is very similar to sprinting 400M, but most runners don't do both.

Question: What is the feeling of grogginess and why do we experience it?
Answer: Hi !

Before I explain this, you need to understand that there is **a lot** that we do not understand about the brain and all the molecules involved yet.
The molecule involved here is **Adenosine**. You can find it in all the body, but the part that answers your question is its work **in the brain**. 

So Adenosine has **receptors** in the brain which when they "receive" Adenosine, it inhibits the **central nervous system** (CNS). The CNS is what **integrates** all information coming from the body and **coordinates** the nervous activity. So like you are 5 : More Adenosine in the brain means more grogginess.

The cause for **morning grogginess** is the built-up of Adenosine in the brain during NREM sleep.

Point of interest : research proved that caffeine works on Adenosine receptors in the brain (among other things) and inhibits Adenosine itself, hence the "awake" feeling.

Adenosine also works on the lungs, the heart, interacts with drugs. It's also involved in the Blood-Brain Barrier (BBB) and research is made to see if there is not a connection with brain disease's like Alzeihmer or Parkinson or Brain cancer. Look it up if you are interested.

Question: Why do we put so much effort in keeping certain species from going extinct and invasive species out of foreign areas when the more "natural" thing to do is let it happen? (read description for clarification)
Answer: Endangered is one thing. And more so humans trying to take responsibility for their actions. Most animals that are really endangered, it's partially our fault. 

As for invasives, the thing is, naturally it wouldn't have happened in the first place. How is a Python from Burma going to relocate to the Florida Everglades without human interference? (Funny thing is they are endangered in Burma, but super invasive where I live. Idk why we don't just ship em over). 

So, short answer for endangered, guilty humans. For invasive, depends. 

Edit: I just want to reiterate I'm not like some tree hugger or human-hater that blames my fellow species for everything. Like I've seen other people say, it's hard to rule out what animal is genuinely endangered and which is our fault.

Question: Syndication of TV shows
Answer: Syndication is when the company that owns the rights to a show sells it to other networks to show. For example, Seinfeld originally aired on NBC and the cast got money from that. But, they later sold the syndication rights to TBS so that TBS could show old episodes of the show. TBS is still paying and some of that money ends up with the original cast.

Question: If you had a stick one lightyear long, would the kinetic energy transfer faster than the speed of light if you poked something?
Answer: No. The stick would not move all at once; your push would propagate down the stick at the speed of sound in whatever the stick is made out of.

Question: Nashville Mayor’s affair proven by reading deleted chat logs from her cell phone. How are these deleted files accessed? Are there ways one can securely delete private data from cell phones and computers?
Answer: Most computer file systems operate like the planning department of a city rather than a demolition firm.  When a file is deleted, they mark the space as available and ignore the existing data, which will be overwritten if/when a new file wants to use the space.  Until a new file actually uses the space, the old data is available to be recovered.  There's software for many file systems that can automate the recovery process.  

Computers have always been terrible for privacy, without lots of very careful precautions (strong encrypting at the file system level and and strong encrypted for communications, as well as other operational security good practices).  The privacy rule for computers has been "never put anything on a computer that you wouldn't put on a post card" for several decades.  That lots of people don't follow this rule, without having their affairs revealed is more a factor of the lack of interest in them rather than any inherent security.  

It's quite hard to secure a smartphone, because your phone is designed to share as much as possible, because the phone makers all want to use your information to more effectively sell you things.

Question: Why can't we use Micro SD cards (or the technology it uses) to create ultra small - high capacity hard drives?
Answer: We essentially already do. They're called solid state disks. They can be a number of form factors but 2.5" is the standard because that's what size laptop hard drives are.

Question: Turning on/off double vision?
Answer: I found out I have double vision because I have a retinal tear behind my one eye. It causes it to lag and I have slightly a dropped eyelid as well due to it. I really would go to your optometrist as soon as you can. Anything to do with vision is VERY important and will not go away by itself!

Question: If we're in the first world, and places like rural African countries are the third world, what and where is the second world?
Answer: It's an archaic system because the Cold War is over. It used to be:

First World: Capitalist powers

Second World: Communist powers

Third World: Everybody else

So, back in the day, the USSR (and, to an extent, China) was the "second world." I guess you could still say that China is "second world," but I've never heard anybody say that.

It's now generally preferred to use developed, developing, and undeveloped, because it makes more sense.

Question: What do we benefit from keep near extinction animals around? Should we just let them go extinct? (not a popular opinion I know, more of a description in comments)
Answer: There are two basic arguments. First, the moral one. We are morally obligated to protect animals that we had a hand in taking to the brink of extinction.

Second, the utilitarian one. We can possibly learn something from ecosystems with intact species that could help us later. If we alter the ecosystem to much it could come back to hurt us later in ways that we don't expect.

Here's a good thread that goes over this topic in more detail: _URL_0_

Question: Why does every car have a different type of battery when every car takes a 12-Volt battery?
Answer: different sizes.

the bigger the engine, the bigger the amperage is needed for the electric starter motor to turn the engine.  the bigger the amp requirement, the bigger battery you need.

bigger batteries also happen to be more expensive and more heavy.   so you use the size battery that most appropriately matches your engine starting needs.

Question: Nash Equilibrium
Answer: Nash Equilibrium is a concept in Game Theory. Basically, when a few people are participating in a "game" (which can be any real or imaginary situation), and each player has his/her own strategy, a Nash Equilibrium is when no player can benefit by changing their own strategy, assuming the rest of the players don't change theirs as well.

Here's an example: a group of people are taken hostage by a single bank robber with a gun. Suppose each of the hostages has two options: try to overtake the robber, or sit and wait to be rescued, but risk a chance of being executed. Now, if all of the hostages are currently sitting and waiting, this is a Nash Equilibrium. The reason for this is that for if one of the hostages decided to change his strategy (by attempting to overtake the robber) and the rest don't, then this hostage would be gunned down - which is obviously a bad outcome for him. Only if all (or most) of the hostages decide to change their strategy together, then it would benefit them.

Question: Why are people still so obsessed with being racist ?
Answer: There has always been a huge push to separate people into groups, as opposed to looking at people individually. Race is a very obvious/visual difference among people, so it is often used to divide. Many people are susceptible to falling into the trap of pigeonholing others based on one characteristic. However, learning about someone on an individual basis, is really the only true way to understanding their character.

Question: Why do universities make tests too hard and then curve the grades?
Answer: So they know where everyone is. If someone gets a 100 then you  know they're good on the subject, but not how good. The tests are used to check progress, so they make the upper end redicleously high so they can track everyone's improvement.

Question: Who has the most power in the U.S political system?
Answer: No group is suppose to have "the most power". Every branch is suppose to have counters and checks on the other two. 

President: Appoints Supreme Court Judges, Has Veto power over potential laws. 

Congress: Approves Supreme Court Nominees, Has Impeachment power over the President. 

Supreme Court: Has the power to overturn laws made by Congress, Has the ability to overturn Executive orders.

Question: Why are there different styles of wall plugs around the world?
Answer: For the same reason there isn't an international language, we've just not been culturally connected for long enough to develop a standard.


Slightly off-topic: The Danish one is my favourite, because its so happy ●‿●

Question: Why is it that (historically) Christians have largely persecuted Jewish people despite Jesus being Jewish?
Answer: 1) Primarily because they are outsiders to the local social structure. They are not native to the region and so are suspect. It is the same reason Gypsies are persecuted. 

2) Religiously Jews rejected Christ and killed him. As such they are evil to the mind of many Medieval Christians. 

Edit 3) Christians were not allowed to charge interest on loans given. Which basically means they were not allowed to be bankers. So Jews took up this role. People tend to not like people that they owe money to. 

But the majority of the reason is them being an outsider.

Question: Why jailbreaking an iPhone 5 is different than on an iPhone 5s.
Answer: But the hardware is different. Different exploits use the hardware and software in different ways.

Question: Why does the U.S not have massive military parades like Russia and China?
Answer: Im a former US Marine ... all I can say is Thank you to my battalion commander/regiment/division/etc. for never having me do any bullshit like that. Fuck drill.

Question: Why do movies and shows have to blur out or block out company names on products?
Answer: In addition to product placement fees, there's also the reverse that if it isn't blocked out and the product is featured and doesnt like it, then they could always sue.

Question: Why is it that when people bald, they bald on the top of their head?
Answer: This is called pattern hair loss (commonly known as male-pattern baldness). Different hair follicles have different structure, and react differently to a chemical the body produces called DHT. The hair follicles at the top of the head will gradually go dormant due to the effects of DHT, but the hair at the side of the head is barely affected by it. 

For most people (mostly men, but some women as well), this means that they will go bald on the top of their head first. There are actually a few patterns, based on the individual's genetics. Some people will go bald towards the top-back of their head first, giving them the classic "bald spot". Another common pattern is for the hairline to recede from the from to the back.

Question: What are prions? Can animals die from prion disease?
Answer: Yes, non-human animals can have prions. Basically, a prion is a protein that has been folded in such a way that it not only doesn't perform its function, but reacts with versions of the same protein that are folded correctly, in such a way that they fold in the same way as the prion and so obtain the prion's properties, reacting with more proteins. This keeps going and eventually the amount of proteins that have been converted to the prion add up to the point where you have all kinds of symptoms (which relate to what happens to the body if that protein is missing, since it might as well be), and eventually death. In order for one animal to catch a prion from another, regardless of species, it has to consume the nervous tissue of that animal. I'm not sure why, but all prions that we know of primarily attack the nervous system.

Question: Why isn't museum art featuring cherubs/naked babies classified as child pornography?
Answer: For the same reason that [this google search](_URL_0_) is not classified as CP: there is no sexual innuendo involved. Also asked before so please search next time.

Question: What happens if the president won the election due to foreign intervention?
Answer: Russia parties down and said president gets closer to his claimed level of wealth. Meanwhile the other two branches of our government being controlled by republicans means everyone gets away scott free.

Question: What exactly is work ethic?
Answer: When someone shows up to work on time and does their job as expected without complaining or causing problems or slacking off and being lazy they are considered to have good work ethic. Also if they are willing to go beyond their job duties and help other workers out or are willing to do other jobs that their boss asks them to do.

Question: Why did Myspace fail?
Answer: A huge factor was customization: myspace was of the opinion that people want to be able to customize their space----music, flashing animation, their favorite teams, etc. And they were right, people DO want to customize their space.


But most people are tasteless, tacky fucks, and myspace quickly grew to resemble a chintzy E-vegas in Hell. Everyone's page took 2 minutes to load and crashed your shit. Broadband was still a thing of the future for most people. It was a nightmare.


Fb was neat, tidy, exclusive. Only college people here, all lined up and organized. Here are their pictures, there is their contact info, nowhere is their buggy green and purple layout and autoloading limp bizkit loop.


This is the same difference between Apple and pc: you can do anything with pc, and the results are wildly disparate. People think they love Mac, but in reality, Mac isn't better than the best pcs, or even comparably priced pcs. Macs only offer one thing pcs don't-----simple uniformity.


Tom from myspace gave the people what they asked for, and they abandoned him. Let that be a lesson to you; design something for everyone and it'll work for no one.


EDIT: I'm not anti Apple. I use a Mac g5, a mid level pc, an Android phone and an ipad, daily.


That's why I know that Mac's superiority is a myth. PCs come in all shapes and sizes: economy, luxury, workhorse, show piece.


Macs come luxury and up.


This gives people the illusion that Macs are inherently better, when in fact what is better is that you'll never use a weaK Mac because they don't make them for that price point.


This is also why there is Honda and lexus, even though they're the same----if honda and lexus merge names, their identity will be muddied. It's better that lexus be known for luxury and honda for affordable quality. 


True of Toyota and Infiniti, Mirimax and Disney, and a shit-ton of "organic, fresh, local" foods that are in fact owned by international conglomerates. 


Apple guards their name as well as anybody, and at their height, they had a cult whose adherents can still be seen.....some might say in this very thread's comments.


Macs are great machines----as would be any number of comparably priced pcs. But only Mac has a guarantee, and if Tommy Boy taught me anything, it's that people need a guarantee...And that Chris Farley was a genius.


EDIT: I GOT MY CARS TWISTED AND I'M LEAVING EM BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT FARLEY WOULD DO heeheehaheehaheehaheeheeha

Question: How does a company like SpaceX remain a functional and profitable company?
Answer: They have large private investors which allow them to operate. Google and Fidelity Investments have invested about $1b, for example

They have multiple contracts with NASA which run into multiple billions of dollars. They also do business deploying satellites. 

They are also in negotiations with the US military, and contracts like that will probably be fairly lucrative for them

I believe they have been running at a loss until fairly recently, only the last year or so has been profitable

Question: If we can teach chimpanzees to use sign language, why can't we teach them to use fire?
Answer: Well, I imagine it wouldn't be strictly impossible to teach a chimpanzee rudimentary fire starting skills. But why would you do this? Now you have a chimpanzee fire starter. They certainly don't have the experience or wherewithal to deal with fire as well as humans, and humans themselves screw it up often enough. There goes your lab.

Question: Why/how do our stomachs "grumble"?
Answer: Your intestines grumble. The reason is because when you are hungry, there's less solid/semi-solid material in there, more gas and fluid. 

The muscles lining them move, both to stir up the mixture of food and goop moving through you, and to move it along the 'path' to the back door. When it's mostly gas and liquid, it makes more noise as it is squeezed by those muscles, the material is gurgling around.

Question: What are the connections between The Theory of Relativity and The String Theory?
Answer: This is not really something that we can ELY5 because it's the million dollar question that the scientific community has been unable to figure out. 

Not specifically String Theory, instead more broadly: Quantum Theory. The scientific community knows they both work, but how they fit together is still unknown. 

String Theory goes further than quantum theory, but it's worth mentioning that String Theory is a misnomer and is not actually a scientific theory. 

Requirement criteria for a theory:

- Must contain an explanation of a natural phenomenon.
- Must be falsifiable, but not have been falsified.
- Must stand up to repeated testing.
- Must be backed by many strands of independent evidence.
- Must make successful predictions.

String "Theory" does not meet 4 of those 5 requirements. As of now String Theory is just a mathematical concept. The math looks great, but there has been no confirmation, as of yet, that it is anything more than beautiful math.

Question: What limits how quickly a battery can charge? Why can't you provide it with an excessive current to charge a phone battery faster?
Answer: Batteries are chemical storage device.  The transition between electrical energy and chemical state takes time.   Extra energy is dissipated as heat.    Too much heat and you compromise the cell container and/or the electrolyte.   With lithium interacting with atmosphere, it catches fire and goes boom.  You don't want that.

Question: how come we usually blur out license plates in photos but not when they're vanity plates?
Answer: Because they're often the subject of the photo. There's no point to a picture of a vanity plate that blurred out.

Question: why do we mow lawns?
Answer: Well the concept of a lawn was to improve visibility so enemies couldn't sneak up close. Then it was used for grazing. Then we decided that it was a status symbol to have a large well manicured lawn.

Question: Why do some institutions know my new address, while others don't?
Answer: Organizations can subscribe to the National Change of Address registry and be notified of address changes for people on their lists. There is a cost involved with this service. Some organizations are willing to pay to ensure they have an accurate mailing list, and others rely on the people on the list to update their addresses with them.

Question: Where are all the baby pigeons?
Answer: Our city pigeons are actually a form of [Rock Dove](_URL_1_) and they build their nests on places on our buildings which are most like cliffs and rock ledges. And the chicks stay in the nests until they're ready to fly but before that they're really [ugly buggers](_URL_0_).

Question: Why do our eyes adjust to bright light quickly but take a while to adjust to the dark?
Answer: Your cones (the vision receptors designed for bright light and color sensitivity) can fully adjust in only a few minutes.  Your rods (the dark-adapted receptors) take much longer, 30+ minutes for just 80% adaptation.  Your cones play some part in looking in the dark, so it doesn't take 30 minutes to start adjusting to the dark, but full dark adaptation can take hours.

Question: Why does hair grow strangely in Moles?
Answer: Moles are a type of tumour. Tumours are formed when cells cannot regulate their growth and split much too often, and grow too large. In tumours like moles, this usually doesn't cause problems, like cancerous tumours do. But to get back to your question, the hairs growing out of the tumour are subject to the same factors that make the skin cells grow out of control.

Question: Why are eastbound flights faster than westbound flights?
Answer: As you suspected, it is because of the winds, specifically the [jet stream](_URL_0_), which mostly flows from west to east.

The rotation of the earth makes no difference, because the atmosphere in which aircraft fly rotates with the earth. If the rotation of the earth did make a difference, logically you'd expect the opposite effect - as the surface of the earth moves to the east, the aircraft, you might think, would move to the west relative to the earth's surface. But this isn't what happens at all.

Question: All of our muscles get tired and we have to let them rest. Why doesn't our heart have to rest?
Answer: _URL_0_

One answer is that the “cardiac” muscle that comprises the heart is of a different kind than the “skeletal” muscle comprising the hand. Skeletal muscles are attached to bone structures and cannot stay long in a flexed position without depleting their energy reserves. Those energy reserves come from mitochondria: structures inside the cells that use the energy taken in from food. Thus the more mitochondria it has, the greater the available energy for the muscle.

Because it has not been necessary in the course of evolution for humans to be able to flex our skeletal muscles for prolonged periods of time, the total volume of skeletal muscle contains an average of only 1 to 2% mitochondria. This is an entirely sufficient energy source for such intermittent muscular tasks as walking or running. The total volume of the heart, by contrast, is between 30 and 35% mitochondria.

That massive amount of energy-generators means cardiac muscle, in a healthy state, need never rest: there is always some energy being transferred to the muscle at the same time that more energy is being derived from caloric intake. And always just in time for that next beat.

Question: There are estimates that 46% of the labor force is at risk for being automated in the next 10-25 years. Why is no one talking about this? Why do we need "jobs" when there are about to be less and less for more and more people?
Answer: This is actually quite a prominent area in leftist theory that goes back to Marx. One of Marx's biggest points wasn't just workers controlling the means of production, but also the advancement of technology to increase everybody's leisure time.  
  
Fully Automated Luxury Communism is a bit buzzwordy but encapsulates well what quite a few modern leftists adhere to (myself included).   
  
This book explains it well - _URL_0_  
  
Also, the Universal Basic Income is a way of allowing leisure time to increase during automation without the negative financial effects caused by mass unemployment. You can read more at /r/basicincome.

Question: Why do youtubers tend to ask for "likes" on their videos, when they get paid per view, and having an uninfluenced like counter could help them produce better content?
Answer: More likes - >  higher ratings - >  more traffic.

Question: Why do movies use stunt doubles in simple situations like a car pulling into a spot or jogging?
Answer: The first thing to remember, is that movies are rarely shot in order and such.

Anytime you can use someone that is not a main actor to fulfill their role (often called a "stand in") means that main actor can be shooting a different scene, even on the other side of the world.  These helps  the timeline and cost of making a movie.

Second, stuntmen and such are very trained for these, they know how to make it go off without issue, and get it right the first time. They can knock this out in one take, safe, quick, and cheap. Thats exactly what you want when making a movie.

Question: Why do songs that we haven't heard in a long time randomly start playing in our heads?
Answer: Our thoughts and memories are in a semantic node network. Meaning, each memory/thought/concept has it's own node (theoretical node, not physical), and they're all connected. If one node gets activated, then the activation threshold for connected nodes lowers, meaning it's easier for them to be activated and thus come to mind. For example, the "apple" node is connected to the nodes "red" and "fruit". So if I see an apple, I'm much more likely to think "red" or "fruit" after thinking "apple", because those are much closer to the apple node than a word like "tissue". 
So about the songs--song nodes can be connected to a lot of other nodes, be it because of lyrics, emotions we felt when listening to that song, childhood memories, etc. You probably saw/heard something (even if you didn't consciously process it) that has a node closely connected to Frosty the Snowman, and activated it. This is an easy example--maybe you saw a picture of a snowman, or a picture of winter. 
Hope that made sense. Yay brains!

Question: When you pick up your luggage after landing from a flight, how do airports make sure that the right person is taking the right luggage, and not stealing someone else's?
Answer: Airports don't check this -- they assume that it's been done correctly until they're told otherwise, until someone reports that their bag isn't there.  That's the big reason why it's important to pick up your bag promptly after landing.

Question: Is drinking 8 cups of any liquid (i.e. pop, juice, coffee, beer, etc) pretty much the same as drinking 8 cups of water in terms of hydrating your body since the primary ingredient in any drink is water?
Answer: There's some difference. First these beverages are high on water, but it's not all water. Cola has like 88% water in it. Black coffee like 98%. Also, the amount of minerals make it either easier to absorb and keep the water, or harder. If you'd drink something high on salt (like sea water), you'd actually get really sick because partially the salty water in your bowels will attract water from you. This will cause diarrea and causes dehydration.
Some ingredients work as a diuretic, which means you will pee more because of them. Think of beer and coffee. While uptake may be the same as with normal water (but probably isn't the same) you also excrete more of it. So, the additional ingredients do matter.

Question: Why do large, established companies like Coca-Cola outsource their branding to boutique firms?
Answer: Advertising is something that is generally outsourced to companies who specialize in it.  It is very specialized, they are the experts at it, and they are the ones who do it. Sometimes they will keep some of the analytics in house, but generally at a minimum the creative and such is outsourced to the "experts" (but they may outsource parts (or all) of the analytics too!)

Its very uncommon for large or even smaller companies to have their in-house advertising department, or at least one that could hold their own against a company who's business is advertising.

But one last thing -- remember "advertising" is not the same as "marketing".  And companies generally keep marketing completely inhouse

Question: Why aren't baseball players afraid of being hit in the face by a stray ball?
Answer: Because they are wearing special gloves, the express purpose of which is to apprehend said baseball.

Question: Swiss gun laws
Answer: Swiss gun owner here.

Here's how it works.

You have three categories of guns that you can buy as civilian:

* Notifiable guns / Free weapons
* Mandatory permit guns / Anything semi auto, pump action or lever action (including handguns)
* "Forbidden guns" / Full auto guns

For the first category you just need a simple background check and your ID to buy them. Buying these guns privately only requires your ID.

These guns are basically bolt action and break action guns.

The second category includes pretty much anything that is quick repeating, such as semi auto weapons, pump action and break action. You need to fill out a very simple permit (takes like 5 minutes) where you include your name, address and the type of weapon that you wish to buy (you can fill out up to 3 guns, if you want more you need to fill out another permit).

Then you send this permit along with a copy of your ID and a background check to the police. It's shall issue and cannot be denied unless you have criminal records. After 1 week you get the permit back and you can then buy the guns you wish.

The last category includes anything that fires in full auto or burst mode. You need to fill out a special collectors permit to get these guns, which is fairly easy to get if you already own guns.

Question: how bose noise cancellation work
Answer: It doesn't deflect the noise, it literally cancels the noise out by playing the opposite noise through the headphones.

Sound travels as a wave. If you play a sound 180 degrees out of phase (aka, the opposite sound), it effectively cancels out and creates silence. [This is a really simple graph showing the concept.](_URL_0_). If the blue wave is noise, and the red wave is what the headphones play, the yellow line is what we hear (silence).

Noise cancelling headphones have a microphone that picks up the ambient noise. With a simple audio processor, it reverses the phase and plays it back through the headphones, cancelling out the noise.

Question: How come people can't be cryogenically frozen safely as the ice crystals destroy the cell membranes, but sex cells such as sperm are kept frozen for long periods of time yet remain functional?
Answer: Sperm is frozen in liquid nitrogen, and the water in the cells is replaced by glycerol (basically antifreeze) as a "cryoprotectant", which displaces the water and does not form the crystalline structure that damages cells.

However, the freezing and thawing process is still pretty harsh and many sperm don't survive.  Luckily, there are billions and you only need 1.

Question: Newton-Cotes Formulas
Answer: Suppose you want to find the area underneath a curve, but you'd rather not (or are unable to) work out the exact formula. Since area is such a nice geometric idea, you can approximate it by breaking it up into smaller, simpler pieces. 

These formula accomplish this, with varying degrees of simplicity and effectiveness. The more complicated the approximation, the more accurate it tends to be. 

On a side note, and in a slightly different direction, this theory can be extended a bit to produce shapes (gaussian quadratures) which actually give the exact areas with no error for simple functions. These are much simpler to compute than the actual integral, as they rely only on a handful of points of the function.

I don't know exactly what problem you're having, but this is the basic idea.

Question: How are firefighters able to determine what caused a fire even when the structure or forest is totally destroyed?
Answer: For forest fires it is likely that the point of origin isn't as burned as the rest of the surrounding area since it wasn't as strong of a fire. The fire that was close to where I lived two years ago was thought the be the result of an illegal camp fire. They found the origin and found what was a small grassy clearing with some camping gear that wasn't completely burned along with pile of ashes nearby. There was unburned grass between the ashes as the partially burned tent which lead them to declare the camp fire as the source. Chances are that a small stick or ember fell out of the fire onto some dry gras and started a fire. By the time the fire was noticed by the campers it was probably too large for them to put out so they ran. The small patch of unburned grass could have been the result of either wetter grass or change in fire directions.

Question: How is Ishmael the father of arabs ?
Answer: Well if you look at the Old Testament, Abraham had two sons: Ishmael and Isaac. Ishmael, though older, was born to Abraham's servant and as such was not able to inherit directly from Abraham. Abraham freed the servant and Ishmael, and he went on to father many children and became a prophet and the patriarch of Islam. 

He's not technically the father of Arabs, he's the father of Islam, the two just tend to go hand in hand

Question: Why do people shake when they get scared?
Answer: Exteme emotions like fear and anger activate the bodies fight or flight response. The body shuts down systems like digestion and decreases blood flow to the extremities. This allows it to increases heart rate and blood flow to the heart and lungs. Also breathing rates increase to get more oxygen into the blood. Hormones like adrenaline are released also. This is a survival response that prepares us to fight harder or run faster to deal with a threat. Part of this process is physical shaking, it's a way to keep the muscles ready for split second action while it's waiting for the brains command to fight or run. This response is largely an automatic response outside our control, andnis just one of several defensive responses we all have.

Question: Verb forms and tenses (particularly French)
Answer: Consider three English sentences.

1. I go to the store.

2. He goes to the store.

3. He went to the store. 

Now, all three of those have a differently shaped verb. Sentence 1 has "go", Sentence 2 has "goes" and Sentence 3 has "went". So those are three different verb forms. 

Tense (primarily) shows what time the verb was performed in -- past, present, or future. Sentences 1 and 2 both use present tense. "I go" and "he goes" both tell a story about something happening RIGHT NOW (or on a regular basis). So you have two different verb forms, but only one tense (present tense). 

Sentences 2 and 3 take place at different times. "He goes" tells a story about something happening right now. "He went" tells a story about something happening yesterday. Here you have two verb form AND two tenses. 

With "imperfect past tense" -- the "past" part is a tense, because it tells when the verb took place (in the past). The "imperfect" part might change the verb form (like switching "I" and "he" in Sentences 1 and 2 above) but it does not change the tense. It's its own thing (called "aspect").

Hope that helps -- if not, feel free to ask more questions, this is my forte ;)

Question: There's an aweful lot of craters on the moon, would having a moon base up there be safe?
Answer: The moon has no atmosphere or running water, so there's no erosion. The craters on the moon today are the result of basically every single impact over its entire history. Impacts are still comparatively rare.

Question: why people make viruses?
Answer: For a lot of them, to make money. For example, many kinds of viruses load a screen as soon as you boot up that says something to the end of "You did something bad...your computer is locked....pay fine at this place to restore your computer" and users will "pay the fine" to get around it.

Some virus authors are simply sociopaths who enjoy inconveniencing and hurting other people.

And then the others are creating viruses irrevently (like NetGear's MrVGina.dll incident around 2007).

Question: Why does starting task manager when my computer is frozen seem to unfreeze it?
Answer: Task manager has top priority, so if any other program is hogging up the computer in an endless cycle you can force it to shut down.

Question: Why is beer not sold in plastic bottles?
Answer: Glass has been used for centuries to contain alcoholic beverages because the glass does not react with whatever it contains - wine and whiskey do not age once bottled and sealed, for example. They've pulled bottles of wine out of shipwrecks on the ocean floor and they're still perfectly drinkable after decades of being underwater.

Plastic bottles, on the other hand, tend to react with whatever they contain, and leech certain chemicals, such as bisphenol-A. Apart from the obvious health concerns, this would also affect the taste of the beer in question.

Question: How do our bodies “get used to” being in very cold water (e.g. the ocean) after several minutes?
Answer: Your brain contains a region called the hypothalamus. This acts like an internal thermostat that controls your body temperature. When you jump in the ocean or a cold pool, your hypothalamus instructs your body to use more calories to raise your body temperature. Of course, it's not foolproof. If the water is sufficiently cold, your body temperature will drop faster than you can regulate it, and you risk nasty side effects like shock and hypothermia.

Question: Why can't Mexico do anything to stop the drug cartels?
Answer: The cartels have tons of money, local support in some areas, and a small army worth of mercenaries. Mexico is up against a very difficult task. America's hunger for drugs is what finances the cartels, and Mexican leaders have repeatedly asked us to reconsider our drug enforcement policies.

Question: When dropping a counter into a slot from the exact same postion on a pegboard/plinko/pachinko style game what is it that stops the counter from falling the same way everytime?
Answer: If you could drop the counter into the same position in exactly the same way and the game was in exactly the same state then it would fall exactly the same way. However, you can't do that because even though it may seem like you are doing things the same way on the large scale, on the small scale there are very tiny variations which cause a different outcome.

Think about firing a gun. If you are shooting hundreds of yards away then even a tiny movement of the gun, too little to see without looking down a scope, will cause the shot to land a large distance away. Air movement along the path of the bullet will change where it hits, temperature differences in the barrel, etc. can all impact the result. In the same way the game has a lot of variables which make things happen differently each time.

Question: why does cold water taste better than regular water?
Answer: It's just a cultural thing.  The Chinese prefer to drink hot water.  

If there are contaminants or bad-tasting substances in the water, though, it'll taste better cold simply because you'll taste it less.

Question: What does having insurance on a priceless artwork do?
Answer: Priceless is a subjective term used to describe something that is one of a kind and no reasonable amount money can replace. Realistically, every piece of art has a price (what others are willing to pay for it). For insurance purposes, a guarantee of compensation for specified loss, damage, in return for payment. If you buy a “priceless” hand carved art for $1000 and then spend $400 to preserve and display it, you may want to insure it for all or part of your investment.

Question: How can a solution to a problem suddenly pop up?
Answer: Subconscious mind solves it for you with all of the acquired knowledge and experience. This won't happen if you've no knowledge.

Question: how do you take an idea to invention if you have no applicable talents?
Answer: You need a partner. It is very doable if you are willing to do work. I.E research what materials are needed, how much it will cost. Applicable uses, just research what you can research. Get a patent. then you can do a lot of stuff. You can PM me for more info. BTW don't talk about it too much and just do. You don't want someone stealing your idea.

I also agree with the other people in this thread. An idea isn't worth shit by itself.

Question: The LIBOR scandal, how it works and how it could have been manipulated.
Answer: Massively oversimplified, of course. But okay, I'll take a shot.

Lets say you want to sell something or buy something. How do you set the price if you're selling, and how do you know if you're getting overcharged if you're buying?

With some things this is simple. How much does a Big Mac cost? McDonalds sets the price, and that's what it costs. But for other commodities, it's not so simple. What's the market price for a 1968 Camaro?

Here, the Camaros are owned by different people all over the country or even the world, and the buyers are scattered around too. So if you've got a Camaro in California, a buyer in Vermont isn't necessarily going to know about it or buy it. And if you're looking to buy a Camaro, you aren't going to know that someone across the country just sold one for a given price in Oregon. 

What we're describing here is a situation where the market price of a commodity can be wildly variable. Maybe I sold my Camaro to someone who didn't know a lot about cars, had a ton of cash and wanted my exact Camaro for $12,500. But maybe someone else who just needs cash fast to save his house from foreclosure would sell the exact same car, on the same day, for $8,000. So there's two things going on here: the prices on individual transactions can be all over the map for reasons that don't really have much to do with the commodity itself (same Camaro, different prices because of other things like the foreclosure), and there isn't a lot of information (nobody knows what Camaros are selling for around the country.)

Now instead of Camaros, let's consider banks borrowing money from each other. They do this a lot for reasons that don't need to concern us here. Just accept that they borrow a lot of money from each other, back and forth, all the time, often for pretty short terms.  What's the market rate for a loan? Again, we've got no central authority owning all the loans to set the price like it was a Big Mac. We've got lots of different transactions going on, and nobody keeping track of them. And it's not just banks. There are all kinds of other institutions lending money to companies, people, you name it. 

LIBOR was set up to get at least some sense of the "going market rate" for borrowing money. The way it works is a bunch of London banks call up the British Bankers Association every morning, and they tell them what their best guess is as to what it would cost them to borrow money from other banks. The BBA takes all these guesstimates, runs them through a complicated formula designed to weed out weird outliers (like the guy who sold his Camaro cheap because he needed the money right now) and publishes an average going rate.

It's important because other lenders, all over the world, have no idea what the market in loans is doing, so they look at the LIBOR and go, okay, that's the best figure we've got right now, so that's today's fair market rate for loans, and it gets applied to mortgages, credit card rates, you name it. That includes a lot of things outside the U.K. U.S. mortgages are often based on the six month USD LIBOR (the rate on six month loans in dollars.)

So how you *try* to manipulate the LIBOR if you're one of those London banks is pretty simple. When you call up the BBA, you just lie to them. In the Camaro example, when you call up the, I don't know, the New Jersey Camaro Registry, you tell them "yeah, I just sold my Camaro for $15,000" when in fact you only got $10,000 for it. The idea would be that your phony higher sale gets factored into the equation and now everybody thinks Camaros are worth more on average.

Now whether this actually *worked* or not is still an open question. Right now we know Barclays was doing this, but one bank alone shouldn't be able to move the LIBOR by reporting false data because the system is set up to weed out unusual numbers. It's still not clear whether the LIBOR was successfully manipulated. Doing that would require lots of banks working together. And if that turns out to be the case, the current shitstorm will look like a pleasant sunday picnic.

Question: Why did everything become so minimalistic? Buildings, art, etc..
Answer: In Western culture, the era from 1916 to 1945 (the two World Wars) marked a turning point. The old European ways did not seem to be working -- that culture seemed to be collapsing on itself in a wave of wars and mass murders. Some artists responded by trying to throw away everything and start with a new, more modern way of doing things, free of the old cultural baggage.

By coincidence, this new simplified style turned out to be very efficient to manufacture or build, especially by machine. So it was both a new fashion *and* a cheaper way to do things. Thus it became very popular.

Question: Why do we need less sleep as we get older?
Answer: We do? I don't know about you but I am *tired all the time*

Question: How is it that SD cards stay the same size but manage to have such varying levels of storage?
Answer: Because the actual part the data is stored on is tiny.

Think of it like this; a school buss looks just as big from the outside when it's carrying one kids as it does when carrying 20 kids.

Question: Why is my inner monologue an arsehole?
Answer: I'm not sure what kind of answer you're looking for. We don't know what your inner monologue is saying. It's your own unfiltered thoughts. 

So apparently you consider yourself to be an asshole.

Question: How did people in the olden days construct buildings that were multiple stories high without the use of machinery like cranes to lift and place materials?
Answer: Pulleys and inclined planes have been used since a long time. Pulleys to lift loads and inclined planes to push stuff up or down. Much like today's modern cranes, pulleys did the same except using man power.

Question: Are Volvos actually safer than other cars?If so why?
Answer: Yes they are. If internet is not lying then one of Volvo's co-founder's wife died in car accident, and safety was the highest priority from the start. They invented three point seatbelt (and gave it away for free to other car manufacturers, which was very generous move) and side airbags.

Question: What happens to the "data" that is transmitted wireless and/ or through digital TV. How is this signal turned into audio/video? (It must pass through the human body, it transmits  through the walls)
Answer: Impossible to explain like you're five, but I'll try my best not to overcomplicate.

It's waves. Waves all the way. But a special type of wave: electromagnectic waves.

Waves all share an interesting characteristic: they only carry *energy*, not mass. Sound is a wave too: when someone speaks to you, their vocal cords vibrate and make the air around them vibrate too. That vibration is passed from molecule to molecule of air, until the ones surrounding the air in your middle ear make your ear drum vibrate. You recognize your ear drum's vibration as sound.

If you're still following me, it won't be difficult to notice that if there are no molecules to vibrate, there can't be sound. That's why sound is called a *mechanical wave*: it needs a material media (like air) to be transmitted.

Electromagnetic waves works like that, but they don't need a media at all. Antennas transmit and receive them.

Light is also an electromagnetic wave, and like any other are considered radiation. But don't be scared because it's not a bad kind of radiation: the bad one is called *ionizing radiation* and basically it destroys your cells. Waves used in telecommunication aren't energetic enough to cause any harm, at least not in a normal daily situation.

EDIT: I hope that gives you at least an initial insight on what's happening all around you. I really love that part of physics and will be glad to answer your questions. Don't be shy and ask away!

Question: In the recent Nuclear Weapons Treaty, why did the Netherlands vote in opposition?
Answer: There are American nuclear weapons stored on a Dutch air base. It was public secret for a very long time, though it was confirmed in more recent years. That sort of thing would be against the treaty. Currently, the government is not taking steps towards removing these weapons / ending this cooperation with the States, so they also cannot really vote in favour of a treaty like that.

Question: Protien Folding and how it relates to Alzhiemers and related conditions
Answer: A protein is a very long chain of amino acids. Amino acids are molecules with different shapes and components that can be strung together. A denatured protein has no defined shape and flops around like a piece of string. However, the different amino acids making it up have different *functional groups,* which are the parts of the molecule sticking out of the protein chain.

These groups fall into two main classes. Some really love water, and some really hate it. So if you plop your floppy protein in water, [it will arrange itself into a ball so that all the water-hating groups are surrounded by each other and all the water-loving groups are in contact with the water](_URL_0_).

Then some groups really like to form bonds with complementary groups. So two different points along the protein chain really want to be in contact with each other. This is the driving force that turns a loose floppy string of molecules into something with a definite shape.

However, there's only 21 different amino acids and proteins are made up of hundreds or thousands. So your lysine at position 25 is connected to the glutamic acid at position 39 in the well folded protein, but there's also a glutamic acid at position 59 it can interact with. If the wrong interactions dominate, you end up with proteins that ar ethe wrong shape. And shape is very important for proteins because it affects how well it can bind other molecules, store energy, and perform its function. If it's the wrong shape it won't do anything or might even do actively harmful things.

Question: Why does adding water in a beer bottle make the pitch of the sound higher when blowing in it, but adding water in a wine glass make the pitch lower when tapping on it?
Answer: The difference is in the medium making the sound. In the beer bottle it is the column of air, in case of the wine glass, it is the glass itself.

Question: What makes crack addicts pull out their teeth?
Answer: What makes you think that crack addicts pull their teeth out? Pulling out teeth isn’t easy, and pulling out your own teeth would be next to impossible unless you’re completely impervious to pain.

Question: Why is our organ of equilibrium located in our ears?
Answer: If you want to keep balance you want the system measuring it somewhere that experiences the least acceleration during normal movement and that is the head. The position in the ear is useful, too, as it is further and on opposite sides from the center of the head and therefore experience more movement and in opposite directions when you turn your head which improves signal strength. If it were near you nose it would be more or less just measuring in one spot while the ears are far apart so you have two points for measuring.

It also needs to be close to the eyes as it causes/controls eye movement to compensate head movement so that the image you see is stabilized.

Question: Why do wall chargers seem to charge iPhones faster than computers, xbox... etc
Answer: To add to the other replies, current (measured in amps) is drawn by the phone rather than pushed by the charger, and the rating of the charger is how much can be drawn before it shuts down/overheats/burns out.  

By default, the phone will only draw a low amount of current (should probably only be 150mA to allow for USB 1.1, but it's generally 500 mA). The charger has a way to signal to the phone that it's able to give more current (connecting the data pins together, putting a resistor across them, etc.), and then the phone will draw a higher amount, generally 1 to 1.2 Amps.

Most phone manufacturers have settled on a de facto standard, but Apple decided on a proprietary standard so an iPhone charger won't charge an Android device quickly, and vice versa.

Question: If a high-security building like The Pentagon or The White House catches on fire, do firemen have instant clearance to access any area necessary?
Answer: This was actually a problem with the 9/11 attack on the Pentagon. 

There were reports of unofficial firefighters and military personal touring the site without actually helping. Their motives are still unknown although a few were arrested.

Rather quickly a perimeter was setup and all personal who required access were issued a badge. All that was needed at first was to show ID. Some 8,000 badges were issued. After, a list of people with pages was compiled, sectioned and assigned a leader who then cut back on assigned badges to only those that were critical.

Essentially, a regular fire would have a perimeter and authorized persons setup quickly as the respective counties personal would already be on file and could be issued clearance quickly. A big event like a plane crash confuses everyone for a bit.

TL;DR: Yes, Firefighters have free roam for evacuation purposes but will be quickly screened before being let in, although depending on the situation at hand people could sneak in before a perimeter was set up.

Question: Why does my hair grow to a certain length a few weeks after I shave my head; but remains that length and never goes past my shoulders even after years?
Answer: Your hair doesn't actually remain a certain length. Depending on which part of the body, your hairs can only grow to a certain distance, once they reach that distance, they fall out.

Question: Mathematisches Problem benötigt Lösungshilfe
Answer: Guten tag. Diese subreddit ist Englisch, und du sollst nich hier Deutsch sprechen. Vielleich /r/de oder /r/Deutsch ist better

Question: What is aggregate efficiency ?
Answer: You can figure out how much energy is in a barrel oil, say by burning it in an enclosed system seeing how much the temperature increases.  But that is not going to be the same as the amount of economically useable energy it provides.  

It takes energy to pull it out of the ground, energy to ship it, to refine it, to distribute it, energy to keep the lights on in the gas station you buy it at, energy lost to the inefficiencies of an internal combustion engine, and energy to mitigate the environmental damage of any of the previous steps.  The **aggregate** efficiency of that barrel will be the ratio between the energy it provides, and the energy needed to make it available.

Question: Why do Computers have dates going back to 1969?
Answer: A timestamp of -1 gets rendered as 12/31/1969.

_URL_0_

Question: How big of a deal is it "actually" that Russia was "kicked" out of G8?
Answer: Russia was not "kicked" it is suspended. A time out if you will.

Question: How come animals can eat off the ground? Does germs not effect them?
Answer: Not all germs cause disease. You can eat off the ground, too, and (depending on what ground you're eating on) getting a parasite is very possible, but most bacteria and viruses don't survive outside a body for a very long time. People ingest more germs than they think they do, and for the most part, its unavoidable.

Question: From the Psychology perspective and personal perspective. What is depression like?
Answer: I think everyone probably experiences their own particular flavor, so to speak. Sort of like pizza. We all can ID what a pizza is and yet each one:

* Has different seasonings in different amounts
* Has different toppings
* Is cooked uniquely
* Has different dough

And so on. 

For me, it's a blend of apathy and tiredness. (Depression, not my preferred pizza.)

Think about your normal morning. You get out of bed, shower, brush your teeth, put on some clean clothing, and so on. Most people do all that mindlessly; it's just what one does in the morning. But with depression each simple task somehow becomes a challenge that takes a lot of willpower to overcome. 

If you manage to make it through getting out of bed, if you manage to make it through taking a shower -- complete with things like shampoo, because, trust me, each little detail requires willpower and effort -- if you manage to care enough to find clean clothing, and so on, by the time you make it out the door you're just totally fucking drained. 

It's like you've just worked an intensive 12 hour shift and your brain is fried and you just want to watch some shitty movie and pass out before you have to do it again. 

Except that it's the morning and you've got to somehow muster up the energy and, yes, the courage to go to class or work or whatever. So you (hopefully) show up. At this point you're expected to focus and participate like someone who isn't already physically exhausted and brain dead. That requires more willpower.

**Spoiler alert**: you just used all your willpower this morning! You used it on stupid things like forcing yourself to use shampoo, or forcing yourself to open the closet door to get clean socks rather than just using yesterday's pair. You used it on things that most people don't have to think about. 

But none of that matters because excuses don't matter in the real world. "I tried" merits absolute dick; people just care about what you actually do, except for (if you're lucky) people like family and close friends. 

Which brings us to the next herb on our depression pie: you often don't feel like you deserve help, and if you do then you're often afraid to get it because mental illness still has a huge stigma. Which means that if you were lucky enough to have people who care in the first place that you're often inclined to push them away. 

It's sort of like:

* Being constantly physically exhausted; your body can apparently cause itself to ache and random pains
* Being constantly mentally exhausted; you only have so much mental energy and you've spent it all before you've left the house
* Add a dash of feeling like you deserve it; you can really hate yourself
* Add a side of "because I hate myself I want to be reckless or engage in self-harm"
* Add a splash of shame; you don't feel "normal"
* Add a dollop of feeling like you'll never get better so what's the point of anything

Throw it all together and you've got a pretty godawful pie. Please forgive the excessive food metaphors as I haven't eaten yet.

Question: How do cell phones only pick up signal from their specific provider?
Answer: It's because of the frequency bands; they are regulated by the Federal Communications Commission.

I do not know who shares which frequency in Amerika but here in Germany we got 4 mobile networks (D1, D2, E1, E2) each got a different owner and a different GSM900 frequency range.

* D1 / Telekom	13–49, 81–102, 122–124
* D2 / Vodafone	1–12, 50–80, 103–12
* E1 / E-Plus	975–999
* E2 / O₂	1000–1023, 0

2007 E-Plus and O₂ paid for their frequencies 22mio € ea for 9 years ownership.

It's equal to your radio, if you are listening to 92,2 you do not get the signals of other stations because of frequence.

Question: Australian football
Answer: It's a big oval with 18 players on each team. There are three goals made of 4 goal posts on either side of the oval. The teams want to get the ball through the opponents goal posts. You can run and dribble or pass the ball by hitting it (like in volleyball) or kicking it. You can also block and teams can be awarded penalty or free kicks at the goals. 

I think that should cover the basics.

Question: How do people see beauty? For example, what makes a rose beautiful but a Cactus not?
Answer: I find cacti beautiful, its all subjective.  Beauty is not in the object, it is in your perception of it.

Question: Why does the moon have a ring around it some nights?
Answer: was it a rather cold night? I believe that the Halo may be a light refraction caused by ice crystals in the air, similar to rainbows.

Question: The 9th amendment to the US Constitution.
Answer: The US government has "enumerated powers", which means that it can only do those things which are specifically laid out as legal for it to do. Civil rights, which the first eight amendments protect, work precisely the opposite way. The ninth amendment basically says that, as opposed to the powers of the US government, citizens' rights are NOT enumerated, and a provision for a specific right should never be interpreted to mean that those are the only rights that a citizen gets to enjoy.

Unless there are laws against something, a citizen can do it; unless there are laws allowing it, a government cannot.

Question: How Tube Amps And Solid State Amps Work
Answer: Do you want to know how amplifiers work or why people choose tube over solid state? 

Solid state devices go into saturation (distortion) at a sharp knee, tubes do do in a gradual curve. It is believed that the gradual curve of the tube going into saturation is more pleasing to the ear. 

Source: im an electronics technician and engineer for a pedal company and a high end sound reproduction company.

Question: How are sentences by judges that are aimed at making an example out guilty parties not a violation of "Equal Justice Under Law", and therefore unconstitutional?
Answer: Each type of crime has a valid minimum and maximum sentence. As long as the judge stays within these guidelines, it is 100% legal.

Question: Why don't we sneeze when we're asleep?
Answer: A simple google search will show

"We're actually more prone to sneezing while asleep, since the mucous membranes swell when we lie down, but because there usually isn't much airflow or movement to stir up dust or other particles while we sleep, the membranes don't come into contact with as many stimulants as they do when we're awake."

Not gunna lie though, it is pretty neat

Question: it's 90 degrees fahrenheit outside. It's going to rain. Is the air more humid just before it rains or just after?
Answer: Actually it's most humid WHILE it's raining. The air has so much water in it that some people even use umbrellas or stay indoors completely.

Question: When you bump, scrape, or acutely injure yourself, why does it instantly feel better simply by putting your hand over the injury?
Answer: Your nerves are mostly sending either pain or pressure signals to your brain. However, they can only send one signal at a time, and pressure takes priority over pain. So when you get hurt and apply pressure, your body thinks "ok there's pain and pressure but since we can only send one signal to this meatbags brain we'll send pressure, and ignore the pain for now".

Question: My rights, or lack thereof, when encountering the TSA in an American airport.
Answer: You are required by law to comply with legal orders of border control agents, the TSA, and police.

You are not obligated to incriminate yourself.  So you do not have to answer any questions they ask you.

If you have entered a border control facility (like customs at the airport) they have the right to open and inspect your luggage.  They have the right to search your person.

If you are traveling through a security checkpoint they can ask for your permission to open and inspect your luggage and search your person.  If you refuse, you can be denied entry to that checkpoint.

They have the right to refuse to let you proceed through a security checkpoint if you fail to comply with their lawful requests.

They have the authority to deny you entry to the United States, or to arrest you and take you into custody if they believe they have probable cause.

If you are arrested you have the right to have an attorney present while you are questioned.  You have the right to remain silent.  The authorities must present evidence in front of a judge within 72 hours that you have committed a crime by making a specific charge against you.

If you do not have the proper visa to enter the United States, you can be held until such time as transportation can be arranged to send you back to your point of origin, or your home country.

Question: How can ocean water and air temperature be the same temperature, but the water feels so much colder?
Answer: You don't feel temperature. You feel rate of heat transfer, which is greater for the water because of its higher thermal conductivity. The same thing is true when you put your hand in the oven at 350F: in air, no problem. Touch the metal, problem.

Question: 2001: A Space Oddessy.
Answer: There is much more to the monoliths than they get around to in the movies. 

Read the books, they cover a LOT that's not in the movies, I can elaborate in PM, don't want to spoil the books if you may be interested in reading them.

Of better yet, if you want book spoilers, read the wikipedia entry for the novel. _URL_0_

Question: What drew people to attend the Grateful Dead concerts over and over again?
Answer: The GD started their career as a band playing live gigs, most notoriously at the Acid Tests.  These were like the very first rave parties, initially when LSD had not yet been made illegal.   People would come and drink the spiked Kool-Aid, and there would be a variety of amusements, often including the Grateful Dead (initially known as The Warlocks) noodling around on their instruments trying to make music.  They weren't very good initially, and they usually just jammed, rather than playing "songs".  The Acid Tests are well described in Tom Wolfe's wonderful book "The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test".   
  
This started the core of the Dead's following, as some people would follow them around from gig to gig, often taking LSD and dancing and having a great time.  It was pretty much a continuation of the Acid Tests.  Many of them would make just enough money to survive selling stuff in the parking lots and campgrounds before the shows (or during the shows).  
 
Most people, of course, didn't follow them around like this.  But their shows were a great place to be with a mellow community of hippies having fun, listening to good music.  A lot of people would go to their shows any time they came near, because it was just like going to a huge party with people who were cool with whatever you were into, as long as you weren't hassling anyone else.   Being weird was normal, and being normal was weird.    
  
You could pretty much sit around and smoke dope without much fear of getting busted, because *everyone* was sitting around and smoking dope.  Strangers would offer you a toke, and it was only polite to offer the folks around you a toke if you could spare it.   
 
And at their core, the Dead was always a jam band.  Sure, they played songs.  But some of the best music was what the songs meandered into.   
  
**TL;DR** - The Dead were a way of life for a few people, and a mellow party for a lot of other folks.

Question: Why do hotels always keep a bible in every guest room?
Answer: A large Christian organization called the Gideons gives them to the hotels as a way to evangelize.

Question: why is the Mona Lisa so highly coveted- I've seen so many other paintings that look technically a lot harder?
Answer: Five reasons:

1. The smile. It was the first painting of its kind to have someone smiling in such a way, so it was sort of a new era.

2. The brush strokes. He used strokes so small, they were damn near invisible, creating a very 'photographic' painting in a time when that wasn't really done.

3. Street Cred. Leonardo Da Vinci was an extremely talented guy, the quintessential renaissance man. He was a genius, and is thus rightly given praise.

4. Time. This painting took four years of Leonardo's life to make. 

5. Subject. Nobody's entirely sure who he's portraying, which is pretty weird for portraits. Usually, portraits like this one are commissioned by the person depicted, but it doesn't appear this was for anyone but Leonardo. Is it a girly version of him? A prostitute? A secret lover? Or just something out of his head?

Question: Because you have to swear to tell the truth in court then why is "I swear I'm not guilty" not a viable defence?
Answer: The court is not assuming your truth, they're asking you to pledge to tell the truth and will punish you if you do not.

Question: What people mean when they say they have a fast/slow metabolism, and how that affects their diet.
Answer: Metabolism is the amount of calories your body naturally burns to stay alive. This is without assistance from fitness or athletic training.

Fat takes less energy to burn than muscle which is why skinnier people tend to have faster metabolisms than heavier people. This also allows them to eat more without the weight gain.

Your metabolism will become faster if you workout and build muscle.

Question: Why does 1% battery last longer?
Answer: Battery remaining is pretty much just a guess. Your phone measures the voltage and makes a guess as to how much of power is left. If you rarely or never let your phone run all the way to where it cuts off from lack of power, it will slowly start measuring more and more inaccurately. First it will think 1% remaining is empty. Then 2%, and so on. Eventually, it's estimate of remaining battery is significantly far from correct. When you finally let it run all the way to empty, it will seem to last longer. It thinks it's empty at 5%, so it's shows 1% remaining when you really have 5% remaining. Since it still has power, it still runs, but the estimate is wrong. Because of this, battery drain slows down as it nears empty.

Question: What is a CO-OP?
Answer: A co-op is any independent organization where people cooperate for mutual benefit. REI is specifically a consumer co-operative, as opposed to a housing or worker co-op.  In this case, the shareholders and consumers (shoppers) are essentially one and the same.

If it helps think of Costco/Sam's Club (these are not actual co-ops). You purchase a membership for REI, which gives you one vote. Like shareholders in a corporation, you use these votes to elect a Board of Directors, who then hire the major executives, like the CEO or whatever. Usually in a co-op, unlike a corporation, you can only ever have one vote (one "share") but idk if that's the case for REI. Then the CEO and other executives actually run the company.

A much smaller co-op might be directly run by the consumers/workers/residents themselves.

Question: What is happening in our bodies when we feel our stomachs drop?
Answer: It's part of the fight or flight response. Blood rushes out of your stomach to your muscles

Question: What will actually happen in the event of a financial collapse?
Answer: Credit will dry up in a financial collapse, causing banks to call in their loans and the people who can't pay are forced to sell. This applies to individuals, businesses and the government. The world runs on credit, so next to no credit slows the economy down. Then over time everything tends to correct itself and pick up the crumbs after

Question: Why do all contests have a NO PURCHASE OR PAYMENT NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN clause ?
Answer: If a purchase is necessary, it becomes gambling, which is illegal in most states. As such, in order for contests to be legal, they have to include an entry option that doesn't require the entrant spend money. 

Usually the requirements are overly cumbersome (physically mail in an entry form, which still requires stamps), so no one really bothers. 

It's worth noting that most contests are more to generate publicity than direct sales (though one drives the other), so just having the advertisements and getting people thinking about the product is usually enough.

Question: How does the compass on the iPhone work?
Answer: Non-douchey answer: There's a chip inside that can sense magnetic fields (such as that generated by the Earth) and can use the field to determine the direction the phone is facing. There's really no way to explain simply how the chip works inside, as it uses fairly advanced principles of electromagnetism, but it actually works very much like a real compass, but digitally rather than analog.

Question: the deal with Putin in Russia. Is he a villain or not?
Answer: Shame on that guy linking you to wikipedia. this is not a snarky reply sub reddit.

I have limited knowledge on some of his acts, russian politics can be pretty complicated. I will try and give you a basic understanding of why people like him, and why people wouldn't.

**Why would you like him?**

* He took office in a very rough time in Russian history, he pulled them out of a terrible place.

* he installed much needed order to many areas of Russia. Before, russia was rife with incredibly large amounts of crime and corruption (he has not removed it all, though, more on that later).

* he has boosted the russian economy roughly 8% each year he has been in office ([source](_URL_3_)). Halved poverty([1](_URL_0_) [2](_URL_6_)) and increased russias GDP (spending power) by 72%([source](_URL_4_)).

* he instituted excellent tax reforms, helping his people immensely.

* he also brought his people back into the international scene as a s uperpower once again.

Sounds like a pretty good guy, right? Well.

**Why would you not like him?**

* he was once a member of the KGB, the very shady ex-secret police of communist russia.

* He has created an increasing wealth gap between the wealthy and the poor.

* He has suppressed the news from criticizing him, and has held onto power for more than a decade now. A sign that he is growing to be more like a dictator. ([source](_URL_7_))

* despite the fact that he is legally not allowed to own more than roughly 180,000$, it is largely suspected that he secretly owns a fortune well into the billions, which has kept hidden from public view ([source](_URL_1_))

* He is also thought to have rigged the recent parlimentary elections in his country in favor of himself and his allies ([source](_URL_2_))

* Putin has been very effective in keeping **certain** political allies in power, regardless of whether or not they would be winning elections "naturally". While crime has decreased, political corruption has only increased since he took power ([source](_URL_5_))

So, with this information, you can make up a rough estimate on whether or not you think he is a "villain" or not. Ultimately, nothing is that black and white, you should decide for yourself whether or not you agree with him and his ideals.

Question: Why does streaming from sites like Youtube or Twitch seem to hit my bandwidth harder than playing online video games in real time?
Answer: Edited: I wrote without my notes, and overstated size of each frame.  Luckily, five seconds of medium def is about 1 megabyte, and the explanation works almost as well]

Networking designer here; my team helped with some of the XBox network code.

You know the phrase, "a picture is worth a thousand words"?  Well, if you're watching an on-line (streaming) movie, about every five seconds of the movie about about a "megabyte" of data -- that's like 1 million letters.   That's also about how many letter are in a typical book.  

If you're playing an online video game, it looks like a movie -- there's flying monsters, and buildings, and spaceships and whatnot.  But it acts more like text.  Your game is sending back to the central server things like, "I moved forward two meters."  And the central server sends back things like, "the toaster will try to kill you".

To see a movie, you have to send the whole movie.  For a game, it's like you're sending a description of a movie.  That's a lot less data.

And that's why you can play a game and your roommates don't notice, but the video stream kills everyone.

Question: Why are some videos framerates 23.976024 fps (as opposed to exactly 24)
Answer: Basically it solves the problem of fitting 24 fps source material onto a 29.97 fps NTSC video signal. 

23.976 fps is 80% – or four fifths of 29.97 fps, which is the frame rate of the NTSC video signal. By slowing down 24 fps *ever so slightly* (by 1/1000), you get 23.976 fps. This then allows four frames of source material to be spread over five frames of NTSC video using a technique known as [**three-two pulldown.**](_URL_0_)

Question: How is Uber legal without following the same liscensing rules as taxis?
Answer: Basically, because a taxi is defined as a car that you can stand on the sidewalk and hail.  Legally, if you don't provide that service, you're not a taxi.  This was upheld in a recent lawsuit against Uber, and the judge ruled that Uber didn't meet the definition of a taxi, since they can only be hailed from the app.  They're closer to, say, a limo service where you call and schedule a trip, which generally aren't classified as taxis.

Question: Why are people mad about Microsoft's Windows "spying" but not Google's same "spying" in Android?
Answer: Everyone knows Google is spying on them.  It is part of their business model, and Google is up front about it.  They even give you web pages that show you how much they are spying on you.

Microsoft is less up front about it, and has more of a history of doing dodgy things without telling users.  Also, they are an older company, so a lot of their misdeeds occurred before people were as used to getting spied on.

Question: How come some city streets in the US like in NY emit large amounts of smoke/steam from underground unto the curbs yet you never see this phenomena in european cities?
Answer: Because the buildings are heated with steam that sometimes escape. We don't have that in Europe.

Question: How exactly does our body produce electricity?
Answer: At the very basic level, it is caused by Sodium and Potassium ions, which are differently charged, and using these ions to create channels of chemically-induced electric current.

It would be extremely inefficient if we wanted to use it as a sort of biological battery. Our current chemical batteries have much better storage and voltage and so on. (Basically, the Matrix's premise of using humans as batteries is complete garbage from a realism standpoint. We make terrible batteries and even worse power sources)

Question: Does this lawsuit make the family (and possibly the lawyer) some of the richest people in the country?
Answer: No.

[ABC News](_URL_0_):

 >  An attorney who persuaded a Texas jury to award one of the largest civil verdicts ever says he and his clients don't expect to collect any of the $150 billion judgment, but they hope it helps persuade prosecutors to seek charges against a man they say doused a boy with gasoline and set him on fire.

Question: Why do water pipes not burst after you turn the sink/hose off? Shouldn't the pressure from the water backing up cause this?
Answer: Imagine that you have a bucket full of water.  Poke a hole in the bottom of the bucket, and water will start pouring out.  But if you plug the hole, the bucket doesn't burst from pressure backing up.  The pressure is constant, and does not (noticeably) increase when the water stops flowing.  The same is true with water pipes:  The pressure is caused by gravity pulling water down out of water towers.  When the water stops flowing, the pressure just levels off.

Question: What exactly happens in a Windows computer when you delete system32?
Answer: System32 contains all the components to get your OS running, deleting that would just result in getting stuck in the bios. This doesn't happen when you are an active user in the OS, only when you restart your computer after trying (you can't delete all files whilst you're active) to remove the folder 'system32'.

Question: Why do humans get time suppression during tragic events?
Answer: Time appearing to slow down is actually an illusion. The part of our brains that helps us feel emotions, the amygdala, becomes more active during times of stress. This causes our brains to ramp up memory recording, making our memories in the moment of a car accident or similar situation much more dense and detailed. 

Compared to our normal memories, it seems like memories that detailed must have been made over a longer period of time than the quick few seconds of the crash would allow. This makes us feel that time slowed down. But it's just memories temporarily being set into "4k recording" mode, so to speak.

Question: Why do I, sometimes, really not like some people for, seemingly, no reason?
Answer: You're probably not a terrible person.

Everyone has a few little things that just rub them the wrong way. Not everybody is socially compatible. The polite response is simply to tolerate those people who you don't like and observe the social niceties when necessary and avoid them the rest of the time.

Question: Why do smartphones have two cameras on them and not just one double-sided one?
Answer: Its a tad more complicated than *just make it double sided!*. It would significantly increase the cost and bulkiness of the camera area, both things people care about more than the frontcam image quality.  Its for selfies and posting to Instagram, people aren't taking panoramic landscapes with it.  Quality doesn't matter much.

Question: How does burning happen? Do food-calories "burn out"?
Answer: Pretend like you have a jar of marbles.  The marbles/jar in this case are molecules/electrons.  You start shaking the jar of marbles (applying energy), now let's say you shake it hard enough to the point that some of the marbles break through the jar. (You've applied enough energy to break the bonds.)  

The new marble goes flying out and just happens to another jar of marbles which then allows that jar of marbles to get excited and release some of it's marbles, and the cycle continues. 

Now pretend like you packed the jar full of marbles, it's now going to take more energy to get the marbles to break free (boiling and melting points of various compounds).  Now pretend that the marbles are all various colors and sizes (different compounds), and that different colors of marbles are attracted to each other while others aren't.  

So as you're releasing the marbles by applying energy, they come off with various amounts of energy and impact their surrounding marble and marble jars accordingly.  Now as the marbles are moving round, they can also break into smaller marbles and join up with other marbles to form bigger ones.

Burning something sends a lot of energy into the other marbles and breaks them apart into other sized and colored marbles that no longer have the functionality of it's previous form.

Question: Why are smartphones coming out with a 64 bit processor but  < 4GB ram?
Answer: Well if you've already hammered out your 64bit support before you need it for the RAM that's always nice, of course.

There are some other advantages, though none I would imagine are Earth-shattering. 64bit CPUs would also generally use 64bit registers, which means you can potentially keep more useful information in the CPU at a time.

Question: Why do fries get soggy the next day?
Answer: The inside of a fry is moist cooked potato. Deep-frying dries and cooks the outside to a crisp. There is nothing keeping or blocking the inside of the fry seeping out moisture to the outside. Over time, this process makes the outside layer moist and soggy.

Question: Is it possible to drink water at a constant rate such that you can just keep peeing indefinitely?
Answer: No. You can drink in excess to the volume of water you excrete, and this can in fact even be fatal if done excessively enough. The result is that your extra-cellular fluid will be low in solutes, and osmosis will shift it into your cells, causing swelling in (among other places) the brain, what is sometimes called water intoxication. Sufficient swelling can result in death.

Question: When I play guitar my left hand is fluent, fast and accurate but when I use it for anything else it's basically useless. How come?
Answer: You've taught the muscles to work in a certain way as you learn to play. Muscle memory. If you went and did normal day to day stuff with your left hand you will become more proficient at anything.

Question: Why do windows sometimes act like mirrors
Answer: Glass allows most light to pass through it, but because it's still naturally reflective ([similar to a mirror](_URL_0_)) you will always have some light reflected back.  If the light coming through the window (from outside) is brighter or more intense than the small amount of light that's reflected (from inside), you'll see the light from outside.  If it's dark outside, you will see the light reflected from inside.

Question: What is going on with You Tube? All sorts of fairly popular channels are being deleted, losing monetization, or having constraints placed on them and seemingly out of nowhere. Is there new management, broken automation, or something else?
Answer: I'm not sure if this is what the OP meant to imply, but the limitations aren't being placed on specific channels, but are rather sweeping algorithm and policy changes that affect everything. 

The two that seem to be causing the most grief are the switch from a per-view monetization plan to a per-minutes-watched monetization plan (although this happened a long time ago in internet standards) and the fact that their content-ID algorithm gives false flags to videos ALL THE GODDAMN TIME. When a video is flagged for copyright violation, the monetization is automatically disabled for that video. There have been cases of things like the *sound of rain* triggering the algorithm to flag a video for copyright infringement. 

tl;dr a combination of seemingly benign policy change and bad automation

[Super Bunnyhop has a great video on this.](_URL_0_) It's from 2013, but it's still incredibly relevant.

Question: How does radiation from the Fukushima plant affect the fish I eat in North America?
Answer: It doesn't, really. The levels measured are incredibly tiny, nanosieverts. You'd get more radiation from spending time in Denver or eating a banana.

Question: Why do some sudden noises scare the crap out of us, while others go nearly unnoticed?
Answer: (This is purely from what I understand about the flight or fight response; I have done no research into whether this is an accurate explanation so take it with a grain of salt). If your ears cannot detect or is not expecting a specific sound the brain defaults to "this sound is foreign or out of the norm so it must be bad" and releases some adrenaline to help you fight the the threat or go away. In the days of primitive humans, a foreign or unusual sound usually meant danger, so the brain evolved this response to help fight or flee from the perceived threat. Since your brain knew the second time around the sound wasn't a threatening sound or you might have been expecting it your brain simply ignored the signal to release adrenaline, since the brain wants to conserve as much energy as possible; again this comes from speculation and my limited knowledge of how the human body actually works; fellow redditors free to correct me if I have misunderstood or misinterpreted anything.

Question: how does Kinesiology Tape work and what affects does it/supposed to have on the body?
Answer: Ahoy, matey! Yer not alone in askin', and kind strangers have explained:

1. [ELI5: Kinesiology Tape ](_URL_7_)
1. [ELI5: How Does Kinesiology Tape Work? ](_URL_0_)
1. [ELI5: What is up with that kino-tape that most olympic athletes are wearing? Does it actually do anything? ](_URL_2_)
1. [ELI5: How does kinesiology tape work? ](_URL_5_)
1. [How does kinesio tape work? ](_URL_6_)
1. [ELI5: What do tape on athletes knees/shoulders do? ](_URL_3_)
1. [Kinesiology Tape? ](_URL_4_)
1. [Kinesio Tape thoughts ](_URL_1_)

Question: Why are things like countries referred to as females?
Answer: Other languages have grammatic rules in a way that differentiates male, female, and middle form (and a plural form of a singular object).

Each noun belongs to one of these forms. Doesn't matter if it's a living thing or just a thing. And doesn't even matter if the object is of male nature or a female nature. It has more to do with a system or a classification, mostly with the endings of words. So that everything is structured nicely.

It really has more to do with the phonetics of the noun. Not so much with the meaning.

In such languages, the form of the noun also affects adjectives, verbs, etc. used with the noun depending on the noun's form.

So for example, if  the word "phone" is male and the word "car" is female, then in phrases: "nice phone" and "nice car" different forms of the word "nice" would be used.

That's why kids growing up in such societies are taught how to differentiate the forms of nouns. So that they can use the correct corresponding forms of verbs, adjectives, etc.

This carries over to names of countries among other things.

From that, English-speaking people exposed to foreign cultures grab snippets of those languages/cultures, translate them literally, and use them in a way that no longer makes sense, when used in the English language.

And then, some English-speaking people push it even further for dramatic effect. "Ain't she a beauty" -- when talking about a ship, for example.

And here we are :)

Question: How exactly did the rotors on the Wehrmacht Enigma work?
Answer: I hope you get to read this. Look for a YouTube channel named singingbanana the guy is a matematician and he has an awesome explanation on how the enigma machine works.

Found the link for you (wanted to watch it again)

_URL_0_

Question: Whats the psychology behind the "silicone baby" phenomenon on YouTube.
Answer: 1) Some people who have lost children use them for grieving 

2) Some people who can't have children use them as surrogates

3) Some people just like them, they're considered collectible

Question: How to pay off students loans?
Answer: Interest is a percentage that you were told when you took out the loan, and every month (or year or some other time frame) that much percent of the amount you have left to pay is added to your bill. To pay off the loans you probably have to contact the company you took out the loan from, look for a contact number on the monthly statement you receive for the loan in the mail or online.

Question: Why can't humans see in the dark?
Answer: Our eyes are stimulated by electromagnetic radiation in a specific range - we see the "short" end as violet, the "long" end as red, and everything between as various colors of the rainbow. Any shorter wavelengths start moving into the ultraviolet range, which doesn't stimulate our eyes. Same with wavelengths longer than red - they go into the infrared range. 

So tl;dr: Your question is backwards! It's not that humans can't see in the dark - it's that humans have defined "dark" as the absence of light in the visible range.

Edit: Technically, it comes down to the _URL_1_ (s) and _URL_0_ (s) in our eyes. We have 3 types of cone cells that respond to light in the visible range as defined above. If we had say, a 4th that could detect UV light, then we'd see an entirely new color beyond violet. Some animals can see far outside of the range that we can, so "dark" for us might not be for them. Rod cells are more sensitive to light and aiding in low-light vision, but we simply don't have as many as some other animals, and our eyes don't let in as much light.

Question: Why is the patriot act viewed negatively?
Answer: The purpose of the act was to deter and punish american terrorists. In reality it was used by the FBI to ignore the constitution and things like 'probable cause' to investigate people unrelated to terrorism. This included, drug traffickers, homeless people, visitors to las vegas, and a webmaster regarding copyright infringement.

 > One criticism of the Act is that "other purposes" often includes the detection and prosecution of non-terrorist alleged future crimes.


_URL_0_

Question: How do software engineers keep track of all the code in a very big program?
Answer: [Let me introduce you to git](_URL_0_)

Git is a version control system that acts as a repository for your source code. It has features like version history, branching and merging, code rollback, all the things you need to properly handle large coding projects.

Git is one of a number of version control systems, and it is one of the most popular (if not THE most popular). Other examples include Perforce (popular with game development studios because it handles binary files much better) and SVN.

Question: Why are older people generally more conservative?
Answer: There are several different things at play here.  I'll try to cover the biggest factors.

1 - The older generation *already won*.

Think of the world as a thermostat, with the temperature it is set at being the condition of the world regarding everything from social issues to economics to politics and beyond.

One generation comes along and sets the temperature at 55 degrees F.  Their children think that the temperature should be 63 because of changes in the outlook of the world or technology or something else.  But the problem is - the first generations *likes* the world at 55, they don't want it to be 63 because they are happy where they are.

This happens as each generation is born and becomes dominant, the thermostat keeps getting set at or close to the "ideal" of that group... and the younger group always thinks that it should be different because... well they are different people.

2 - Older people have something to lose.

When you're 22 with no spouse, no kids, no house, no mortgage etc. it is very easy to say "the world should be different and I'm going to work to change it".  There's no real consequence to failure since you already have basically nothing.  

But fastforward to 42 and suddenly you might have a spouse... a few kids, a house and mortgage, maybe a job where you are working your way up the ladder... in short - people depend on you.  You can't just drop everything to protest some social issue... you have work in the morning and if you don't work you can't pay for the bills and your family is in trouble.

Question: What does the common person seek to gain from denying climate change?
Answer: Howdy! It's my belief that the crisis is overblown. I do not deny these things:

1) climate is changing
2) we are part of what's changing it

Those are the things that there is scientific consensus on. The things that I do not find as much consensus on:

1) the actual percent contribution we have on climate change
2) the outcome of what will happen due to climate change
3) actual solutions to slow / reverse climate change, assuming the outcome is devastating like people say

Here are reasons why I question these things:

1) reports that data sets were scrubbed / information was cherry-picked 
2) it's extremely suspicious when climate change spokespeople claim the science is "settled" which basically goes entirely against what science even is. It indicates to me that these people (Neil deGrasse Tyson, Bill Nye, etc.) are motivated politically rather than scientifically. 

I do not intend to insult anyone or anger anyone with this post, I only post this with the intent to possibly shed light on the other side of the argument. Almost nobody denies that the climate is changing and that we are a part of it, it's mostly a disagreement on the severity / solution and a distrust of the political spokespeople who attempt to squash further investigation by berating everyone who disagrees with them. 

Feel free to downvote me and trash talk me all you'd like, I do not intend to reply to this post if the response is as overwhelmingly negative as I expect it to be. 

Thanks!

Question: how do exploding bolts work?
Answer: The application I know explosive bolts are used for is aerospace engineering: they are used to separate rocket stages since they are lighter and much more reliable than other mechanical separation methods, especially in a zero-G environment. You can see that [here](_URL_0_).

Explosive bolts contain explosive charges in a specific pattern, usually on the circumference of the bolt, that are wired to a remote detonator. The wireless signal is received by the remote detonator and through the wires reaches the explosive and ignites it. The bolt is often designed to have an intentionally weak spot where all the energy from the explosions releases and snaps the whole thing in two.

Question: What is it about the color black that absorbs light and converts them into heat?
Answer: it's physics. and you got it the wrong way 'round.

objects appear black to you BECAUSE they absorb the electromagnetic waves we call light. 

that light carries a certain energy with it which gets absorbed, which is then converted to thermal energy aka heat.

If thats not what you meant, please elaborate a bit on the question

Question: What all exactly did Edward Snowden reveal?
Answer: Strictly speaking he only "revealed" details on US foreign surveillance.  Prior to the Snowden leaks, it was widely assumed that the US was spying on pretty much every other country (and that they, in turn, were spying on the US).  What Snowden provided were concrete details on how exactly the US was doing that.  

For example, prior to Snowden the German government could assume that the US was spying on it, but didn't know quite how or exactly what information the US was able to get.  After Snowden it was revealed that the US had tapped more or less every important phone line in the German government and was aware of the full contents of many conversations/documents that the Germans had previously assumed to be secret.

This extends to every country in the world.  Post-Snowden, Russia/China/India/Pakistan/Iran/ect... all had a publicly searchable database handed to them that they could use to check to see how the US was spying on them.  Its also assumed that China and Russia gained full access to Snowden's hard-drives, and so may have gotten even more information on US spying efforts than was publicly released.  

The other half of Snowden - and the stuff you tend to see talked about online - is the domestic surveillance stuff.  None of those programs were secret, the specific details of how they functioned may have been but all of those programs were well known in the legal and law enforcement communities and had been *extensively* litigated throughout the mid-2000's.

All Snowden did as far as those programs were concerned was to raise awareness of them outside of the legal/law enforcement communities, but nothing new was actually revealed.

But to sum those programs up:

1) Wiretaps.  Prior to Snowden most laypeople assumed that wiretaps still involved a person going out to your house and placing a bug on your phone line.  Post-Snowden people became aware that telephones are all digital, and that a wiretap is just the phone company approving the call being routed to a law enforcement computer in addition to its destination.

2) Private partnership with law enforcement.  Prior to Snowden laypeople assumed that companies like google completely ignored your search requests or the contents of unencrypted emails sent through their services.  In reality they parse and use that data extensively for advertising purposes.  If their advertising algorithms detect certain red flags, such as if they see someone repeatedly searching for a known Islamist forum or you have a long email conversation about how to build pressure cooker bombs, most companies will voluntarily forward that information on to law enforcement.

3) National security letters.  The US can get a special type of warrant related to foreign activity being conducted within the US.  These warrants are not public, unlike all other warrants, and come from a specially formed court.  This court is authorized by Congress, approved by the President, and has been ruled constitutional by the Supreme Court.  There are very strict guidelines for when this court can issue a warrant, and is extensive oversight of the court within all 3 branches of government.  It also produces a relatively small number of warrants each year.  But again due to the nature of how it works only Congressmen/the President/judges at the appellate court level and above have full access to the warrants it produces, though you could challenge a warrant issued by the court if you were ever charged with a crime using information obtained by one.  Though typically the judge would review the probable cause for the warrant in private and would not turn it over to you, which is actually not as uncommon as most people believe.  (For example, lets say there is a known information who provides information to the government that leads to a normal warrant being issued against you, if you challenged that warrant you will frequently not be told the name of the informant, even though the warrant itself is public).

Edit: and I'll put a final note that causes confusion a lot on the internet.  Part of how US foreign spying works is that a substantial percentage of worldwide internet traffic passes through the US, even if neither the sender or recipient is in the US.  It will sometimes even pass through the US despite being sent to two people living in the same foreign country.  The US takes advantage of this and will read the full contents of any such communication that passes through the US. 

People frequently get confused about this and think that this also applies to wholly domestic traffic, which it does not.  However, there are *very extensively litigated, limited circumstances* under which the US government can view traffic that originates in the US with a foreign destination, or which originates outside of the US with a US destination without a warrant.  Exactly what those circumstances are is beyond an ELI5 but suffice to say they do not affect the overwhelming majority of Americans.

Question: What is the scientific reasoning behind some substances that have a reverse tolerance?
Answer: "Reverse tolerance" or drug sensitization is a real thing that can occur with certain drugs or alcohol. If you think about alcohol in particular, over time you build up a tolerance for it and it takes more alcohol to get you intoxicated. Supposing you continue to drink heavily, you can damage your liver, which can lead to a reduced tolerance or "reverse tolerance". 

Some drugs require a sensitization period, in which your brain/body needs time to build the proper neural connections and uptakes in order to feel the full effect of the drug. Antidepressants/antipsychotics tend to fall under this category.

Question: How do spiders get to the top floor of apartment buildings?
Answer: They can climb.  They can also get blown along by the wind until they land on a higher floor of a building.

Question: Why do big threads from the default subs never appear on my front page until they're 8 hours old and have 5000 comments already?
Answer: Because of the way you have it sorted - by "Hot." It takes the subs you're subscribed to and picks the hottest ones, so big subs like pics and adviceanimals show the highest scored threads.

Switch to sort by top - hour and you'll see a lot more, relatively quick revolving threads.  Be active on them and comment/contribute to the things you like.  Some will likely work their way to the big boy front page.

Question: Where gold gets it's worth from and why it's so valuable to economies
Answer: If something is useful, then it's valued more.

If something is hard to find, then it's valued more.

If something is shiny, it's valued more.


Since Gold is useful, hard to find, and shiny, it is very highly valued.

A few reasons Gold is used:

* for jewelry and awards, because it's shiny and has a nice color.

* for making computer parts, because it conducts electricity and is easy to mold into many shapes.
* in spaceships by NASA as a lubricant between mechanical parts, because it can withstand harsh space conditions.

There are plenty of uses for gold now, and the list of uses will grow, which means it will get even more valuable. And as Gold supplies get used up, fewer Gold will remain, *further* increasing it's value.

And that is basically why Gold is so valuable.

Question: Why is it more expensive to eat healthy?
Answer: Your premise is somewhat flawed; it is not necessarily more expensive to eat healthy. It certainly *can* be, if you buy certain types of raw ingredients, but does not have to be. 

Industrial scale food processing is extremely efficient, so a lot of prepared food is cheaper than the make-it-yourself equivalent...so if you try to eat the same stuff as just build your own, it usually doesn't work out. 

However, if you adjust how you cook and eat (stay in season, stay local, stay low on the food chain) it's fine.

Question: circular polarization.
Answer: Take a piece of rope and hold one end of it.  Let the other end hang towards the floor.

Now wiggle your hand back and forth in a line from side to side.  The rope will now make a wavy pattern in one direction (to the left and right).  This is essentially linear polarization.

If you stop, let the rope settle, then start wiggling your hand back and forth in a line forwards and backwards, the rope will make a wavy pattern in another direction (towards and away from you).  This is also linear polarization.

Now stop, let the rope settle, then start moving your hand in a circle.  The rope will start spinning around in a circular pattern.  This is equivalent to circular polarization.  If you go in a clockwise circle, you get clockwise polarization.  If you go the other way, you get counter-clockwise polarization.

The way to visualize unpolarized light would be to move your hand in random directions, or simply wad the rope up into a ball and throw it at the floor.

A little more advanced:  Imagine doing the two types of linear polarization I described above at the *same time*.  What would happen?  If, every time you moved your hand to the right, you also moved it away from you, and every time you moved your hand to the left, you moved it towards you, your hand would wind up going in a diagonal line from (left, close) to (right, far).  The rope would still be linearly polarized, but now on a diagonal.

Now, here is the advanced part:  Delay the back and forth motion by 1/4 of the wavelength.  What I mean by this is you will still be moving  your hand left and right at the same time that you are moving it back and forth, but you won't start the back and forth motion until you have moved the rope all the way to the right (assuming you start by going to the right).  You might think that this would produce another straight diagonal line (and thus linear polarization again), but instead your hand will wind up going in a circle, and you will produce circular polarization.

Sorry if my advanced explanation was too confusing, but if you can understand that, then you can understand how they make circular polarization filters.  They take a linear polarization filter, then attach a quarter-wave delay plate on a 45-degree angle.  This will turn linearly polarized light into circular polarized light.  Or, if you shine light through the other way, it will only allow the correct circular polarized light through (which is how they make 3D movie glasses).

Question: What should I ask college student programmers if I want them to be able to design VR simulations for my research team?
Answer: Do you have an actual computer science department at your university? I'd give the project description to a professor in that department and ask them to advertise. (This happens at my school... but my school is a small college, not a university, so maybe these kinds of interactions are more appropriate.) If what you want is simple enough, you could even ask them to make a single example and see who does what you need the best to make the rest?

That said, this isn't really an ELI5 question. I'm just answering because I didn't want you to feel lost if I could help it. You can try one of the computer science/programming reddits for a more specific answer, too.

Question: The game Skyrim. I've watched half a dozen videos about it, but don't get it.
Answer: It's an "open-world" RPG. Kinda like WoW, but tailored for a single player. Essentially, they've plopped a big sheet of land down; decorated it with trees, mountains, and other nature stuff; built some towns, cities, dungeons, and people or creatures to populate them; wrote stories and quests for the player to do; then told the player to have at thee. It's exploratory fun.

Question: How do we see images in our head?
Answer: Going for an explanation a 5 year old might really get:
Part of your brain (the back part) controls vision. When you see a real banana, that part of your brain responds to the light coming into your eyes, and it tells the rest of your brain about what the banana looks like. It says things like "it's yellow," "it's curved," and "it has a brown spot right in the middle."

When you imagine something, the visual part of your brain isn't responding to the light coming into your eyes. Instead, it's responding to what you're thinking about. You remember what a banana looks like, so you can imagine it. The same kind of messages are being sent by the visual part of the brain to other parts (yellow, curved, brown spot). But when you're imagining, the messages are less clear then when you really SEE a banana. That's why "it's there, but it isn't there."

But, this is really a good thing. Think about this: what would happen if you COULD really see something when you imagined it? Every time you imagined a tiger, you'd see a tiger appear in the room! That would be bad; you'd probably run around screaming and being scared a lot. So your brain has evolved a way to let you imagine things without being confused whether or not you're really seeing them.

OK, bonus ELI-25 time: There's a really cool study that came out recently, which looked at exactly this question. They used functional MRI to examine how responses in the visual cortex differ when people saw a set of 5 familiar paintings, versus when they imagined them. They found similar (but for the sake of simplicity, messier) response patterns during imagery versus perception, even in the lowest levels of visual cortex, suggesting that imagining a picture activates these parts of the brain in a similar way to actually seeing it.

Here's a link to the paper: _URL_0_

In the interest of full disclosure, I'm friends and colleagues with some of the authors, and I was around when they were working on this project (was finishing my PhD in neuroscience at the time), though I wasn't directly involved in their work.

Question: How can IQ be so confidently ascribed to racial characteristics (i.e. hereditary)?
Answer: Simply put:

1) There is really no consensus amongst psychological sciences that IQ tests can be considered to be an accurate measure of anything, other than performance on the specific and abstract tasks that constitute IQ tests.

2) Even when using an arbitrary test like an IQ test, it has proven completely impossible to isolate and filter out learned and acculturated abilities.

3) It is thus impossible to attribute any results of IQ tests on a population scale to genetic traits, as the social and learned effects cannot be discounted. The claims to heritability do not thus necessarily point to genetic inheritance, IQ scores are far more likely to be passed on by upbringing.

4) IQ tests are a product of a pursuit - the assessment of intelligence - that is controlled and influenced predominantly by white, upper-middle class, academia. So, unavoidably, the results will be a bit skewed towards white test-takers.

Question: Is there any significant difference between different brands of water?
Answer: Significant, I wouldn't say. The source of the water changes its composition, and therefore also the taste. If two brands get water from the same source, they would be practically identical, unless one of them really screwed up the bottling process.

Unless you have a serious mineral deficiency, I can't imagine one brand being measurably more healthy for you, and if you had a mineral deficiency, you should get a proper supplement for that anyway, not bottled water.

Question: When I have a cold, why does my nose often continue to feel blocked after I have blown it thoroughly?
Answer: The blocked feeling doesn't only come from mucus, it's usually inflammation of the sinus cavities and nasal passage.

Question: A compulsory music license.
Answer: From my understanding (and a brief brushing-up-on-it), it basically means that if you pay a copyright holder for the license to cover their work, they're required by law to allow you to do so.

In other words, they (have to) shut up and take your money.

EDIT: Clarity.

Question: "Jailbreaking" phones
Answer: An iPhone is made up of bits of metal and code.  The metal bits are called the hardware.  The code is called the software and is the operating system and apps.  There is also something called 'firmware" which allows the software to talk to the hardware.

When Apple sells you an iPhone they only want you to be able to deal with their operating system in the software.  This is because they want users to have to buy apps for their operating system.  To prevent users from installing their own software they have special firmware that prevents it.

Jailbreaking an iPhone is installing one's own firmware so that they can then install their own software.  Firmware however is very sensitive.  If the installation messes up then the iPhone won't even know what pressing the power button means and it can "brick" your phone (make it as useful as a brick).

You are paying someone to flash your firmware and thereby allow you to edit absolutely everything about the operating system not just what apple wants you to be able to edit.

Question: Why do some "antibacterial" agents cause resistance, and some don't?
Answer: Right, I don't know the specifics regarding triclosan and tea tree oil but I can take a crack at this.

Antibiotics and antimicrobials work, in their broadest sense, by either killing bacteria or preventing their growth. To do this they must interfere with some process that the bacteria need to live or to grow. If the bacteria evolve a way to bypass the process or have it function anyway then it will have evolved resistance. If the antibiotic only targets one process then the bacteria only need to bypass one issue in order to become resistant, but if the antibiotic has multiple targets then the bacteria has to evolve counters to all of those before it is resistant. If it doesn't counter them all then it will still be killed, so bacteria have to develop all the necessary counters at once. This doesn't make it impossible for them to do so, but it does make it much less likely. There are other ways in which this works as well, if the process targeted is more core to the bacteria's function, it will be more difficult to evolve a resistance than if you targeted something that has an easier work around. Sorry if that isn't very clear, I can try to explain further if you like.

As for your side question, yes, every single antibiotic runs the risk of causing resistance. The simple act of killing off most of a given bacteria puts a massive selection pressure on those bacteria. Bacteria are evolving constantly and any one bacterium might develop a resistance to a given drug at random, if it's only one bacterium of many then it might not really get anywhere, it might even be outcompeted by its sister bacteria for food or something and die, but by killing off all of the non-resistant bacteria you are removing the competition and allowing it to thrive. As for alternatives, antibiotic is a very broad term, anything that kills (or stops the growth of) bacteria is by definition an antibiotic. Bacteria don't become resistant to ALL antibiotics at once and, even if a type of bacteria develop a resistance to antibiotic A, they can still be treated using other antibiotics.

Question: Why does being tickled make us laugh when it is such an unpleasant sensation?
Answer: The short answer is we really don't know.  Of course, [people have their guesses](_URL_1_), and it seems to be that it isn't a naturally occurring physiological response driven by (as you put it) a biological imperitive.  Most of the hypotheses point out that you typically 'learn' about tickling through a parent/child interaction.  Indeed, if you feel like reading up on scientists scarring childeren for life, [Cracked](_URL_0_) has 6 good tales, one that tried to prove whether tickling was a physiological response or a social learned response.

Question: How is it that prisoners can earn law degrees while serving time, but on the outside people go into six-figure debt to get the same degree?
Answer: Offering prisoners the chance to study in prison lowers their chances of returning to a life of crime afterwards and improves their behaviour while inside.

That said it is not the same degree. Do you really think prospective employers are going to look at a harvard degree and a prison degree and are going to go 'yes, these degrees are exactly the same in terms of worth'.

Question: How do they measure how fast a continent is moving?
Answer: There are fixed points all over the world. People are continuously measuring the position of these points in relation to each other. It used to be with triangulation and celestial observations but nowadays they are using GPS.

Question: What the hell happened to Shia Lebouf?
Answer: Well, art being subjective and all, it's hard to ELI5 when the tone of the question implies that there is a level of negative judgement that leaves no room for an answer that tries to explain - because it would always sound like a defense...

But I'll try?

So there is Shia, a guy with problems like me and you, and the added backstory of liberal parents with artistic views and intentions that most likely shaped him as a kid. 
This dude gets famous but isn't the ideal candidate for being rich, in the spotlight and on top have some sort of perceived responsibility over the younger generation that grew up watching him. 

So he fucks up. 

He fucks up a bunch.

My guess is that this dude is rather aware of the fucking up a bunch - as it is happening - but can't stop it and so he starts to reflect on the situation.

He has a ... Eureka! kind of realization. 
Why not make the absurdity of the situation obvious, why not dive deeper and explore fame through performance art?

He starts to study things like meta-modernism , post-postmodernism, post irony (I AM SORRY BUT THESE ARE REAL THINGS ) and applies them to his life - creating himself as art.

Whether or not that's awful to you , and the fact you are asking ELI5, is by extent part of his performance-art.

Whether or not his "art" is actually bullshit and pseudo-intellectual as many think, might be too.

Whether or not the mistakes came first and were later disguised as performance art that now has taken on a life of it's own is just my speculation - I have never talked to that man.

*format


 ?!!! gold ?! I'm super happy that after reading this sub for months and always thinking: I *wish* I  had something to say I finally got the courage to open up an account. you kind of have no idea - but this is awkwardly touching. is there an abbreviation for thank you kind stranger for the reddit gold? tyks? tyks!

Question: Why is the Word "Character" Pronounced as "Ka" racter and not "Cha"racter ?
Answer: Character and chameleon come from Greek root words.  When the Greek word was adopted into our alphabet the "ka" sound was written as "ch".  

Champion and Chalk came from Latin and over time were pronounced with the "cha" sound that was also written as "ch" in our alphabet.

Question: Why do we humans get so easy problems with their teeth while animals don't brush their teeth at all and most of them do fine their entire life?
Answer: We have terrible diets that contribute to damage to our teeth. Many animals also don't live as long as humans, and that damage can take a while to really compromise your teeth.

And ultimately, if an animal's teeth go bad, which does happen, that's typically *the end* of their entire life. You don't see the bad teeth animals running around because they have died from complications to having bad teeth, like disease and starvation.

Question: If any, what would the differences be to your body if you lost weight by burning calories through exercise, as opposed to eating the same amount of calories less?
Answer: As far as just plain weight loss goes, there would be no difference whatsoever. Your body requires somewhere between 1500-2000 calories per day just to survive adequately.You burn X and consume Y. If X > Y you lose, if Y > X, you gain, regardless of how you create that imbalance. 

However, muscles mass takes more calories for your body to maintain than fat tissue. So if you lose it through exercise, you're probably also building muscle. More if you're doing muscle-centric workouts like lifting. So *over time* you will end up losing more from the exercise since  adding more muscle will increase the amount of survival calories your body needs to consume each day. 

But it's also a lot easier to just eat less than it is to burn 500 calories in exercise. The human body has grown to be ridiculously efficient in how it uses its calories, a huge benefit that served us well for thousands of years, and has only recently become a drawback. You really don't burn all that much from working out by itself. This is why they always recommend diet *and* exercise to lose weight. Diet for easily dropping the amount of calories you consume (subtracting 500 per day will make you lose a pound per week) and exercise for adding more muscle and general health so that you're not just burning more, but increasing the rate in which you burn them over time, creating a snowball effect.   

tldr;

Eating less loses fewer calories but quickly while exercise loses more calories, but much more slowly. Do both.

Question: Do film companies pay theatres to show their movies, or do theatres pay film companies for the rights to show their movies?
Answer: It's a shared pool that works out roughly like this, the ticket price is split between the studio and the theater at a percentage 

1st week: 90% studio / 10% theater

2nd: 80/20

3-5: 60/40

...etc

Specific movies and specific studios may have deals that alter the percentage for each week and timeframe, it's all negotiated, and these are estimated but it's a good rough base of how it works. The theaters still collect all the money on concessions, that's where they make the bulk of their profits.

Question: Why is it, that on the same amount of food consumption, I feel fine to exercise, but feel empty to edit an essay?
Answer: The empty feeling when thinking about the essay is a psychological process. There could be many reasons your brain wants to avoid it. This most likely has nothing to do with food intake.

Sounds like small dose of the maladaptive coping mechanism psychologists call *avoidance*. (Yes, it's a thing.) Plain old procrastination is different. I'm guessing it's the coping mechanism because you have some deterring "feeling" associated with it.

Question: Why do people listen to music with earbuds in while driving a vehicle that most likely has a stereo in it?
Answer: They could be listening to music from an audio player which can't connect to the car stereo (for example if the car doesn't have an aux input).

Or they could just be using their headphones to talk to someone on the phone.

And where I'm from it's very illegal.

Question: Why are head-lice a 'kids thing' that seems to only exist amongst groups of younger aged children?
Answer: Because kids, when at school and play they get their heads close to others. Adults, consider it rude/weird/childish to do that. While the lice may spread from child to adult, it is less likely to happen between two adults.

Question: What is Citizens United and why is it such a big deal
Answer: Say you want to donate money to Hillary Clinton's campaign. There is a limit to how much you can donate. You can donate a max of $2,700 to Hillary Clinton this election.

Now say you want to make a $1 million commercial about how deporting illegal immigrants is a horrible thing to do. You spend the money and you want to play it on TV. It's reasonable to spend money on commercials, and it is reasonable to want to convince people deporting people is ok.

But the twist is that if you play it between now and the election, the commercial basically tells people not to vote for Donald Trump. It is a pro-Hillary commercial because it criticizes the policies of her direct competitor.

In that sense, you aren't technically supporting Hillary's campaign. But you are spending $1 million dollars on what is essentially anti-Trump advertising. Before Citizens United, this was a grey area. Citizens United ruled that this was ok to do as long as you don't directly and secretly coordinate with Hillary Clinton's campaign team.

Furthermore, if it is ok for 1 person to spend their money on an advertisement, it is ok for 2 people to form a group and spend $500,000 each. And if it's ok for 2 people, why not 3? Why not 1 million people, each spending a dollar? That group could be anything. It could be a corporation, it could be a labor union, it could be a non-profit corporation. However those individuals want to organize themselves is fine because if they have the right to spend the money individually on the ad, they have the right to do it as a group.

Of course all of this is great in principle, but what ends up happening is that large organizations are much better organized than grassroots people, and they can spend a million dollars like it's no big deal. This essentially means that that more money you have, the more you can spend on advertising, and the more you can influence elections.

Question: non-alcoholic beer
Answer: It's still beer (or it was). It's brewed by creating a beer with a very low fermentable sugar content, fermenting it out (results in 2-3% abv) and then placing the liquid in a vacuum chamber and reducing the pressure until the alcohol boils itself off. The vacuum chamber is used to prevent the addition of heat much later in the brewing process than is desired. From there the ~0.5% abv beer is packaged and sold. Technically it is beer because it is a barley based fermented liquor.

Question: The Turkey/Netherlands Diplomatic Tensions
Answer: Basically Turkey wanted to send someone over to the Netherlands to campaign, but the Dutch government was like 'we want none of that here'. Turkey said some not so nice things about the Netherlands and they responded by not allowing the Turkish campaign dude to land there with a plane.

Turkish people in return tried to burn the Dutch flag but it turned out to be the French flag (I laughed so hard at this) and stabbing oranges for some reason. 

Now more countries are getting involved and basically scolding Turkey for handling things poorly.

Question: Why does the toast get crunchier when it cools?
Answer: The steam evaporates off, so it's less moist.

Question: How do computers know what time it is?
Answer: They have an internal clock, a lot like a wristwatch. It keeps track of the time. There's even a small battery on the motherboard to keep track when the computer is unplugged.

Question: Can someone please explain the sunk cost fallacy?
Answer: Imagine you've had a car for the last fifteen years, and that car is a piece of shit. It breaks down every few dozen miles, it smells gross, it looks like shit, and you're constantly pouring money into it. The Sunk-Cost fallacy is where you would be more likely to keep the car and keep pouring money into it than to spend a whole bunch of money on a new car. The thinking is something like "I've spent so much money on this car, it'd be stupid of me to buy a new one." This is also extremely common among gamblers, who might keep playing a machine, reasoning that since they've put so much money into it already, it's bound to pay off eventually.

TL;dr, It's where you think that it's more beneficial to continue doing something, despite that something being obviously detrimental, because you're sure that if you keep doing it, you'll get a return.

Question: What's the difference between the different tiers of gasoline and is it really worth the extra money for premium gas?
Answer: Higher grades of gasoline are refined more carefully to give them a higher octane rating, which means they burn more consistently and are less likely to "knock" (ignite prematurely) under the higher compression in high-performance engines.  Unless your car's owner's manual specifically says you need to fill the tank with a higher grade of gasoline, it's a waste of money.

Check the owner's manual.

Question: finite elements method
Answer: Ok I'll have a go..

So FEM is a numerical method used to solve boundary value problems..

To give you an example, imagine a system where a metal rod was placed with one end in an oven at constant temperature, and the other in a fridge at constant temperature. FEM could be used to approximate the temperature profile along the lenth of the rod, since at both ends of the rod you have a fixed boundary condition (temperature is fixed).

Practically what you would do is discretize the system. This just means break the length of the metal rod up into *n* number of micro-rods, all joined up end to end. 

You could then form an equation that describes the temperature profile (including any necessary heat transfer properties) for the the first section of rod. Since you know the temperature is fixed at one end, you've only got 1 unknown to solve for. Similarly, at the other end of the rod, you know the temperature it's being kept at.

For all of the interconnecting micro-rods, the answers from one feed into the equations for the next. But to start it off you can use the feed out from the first rod. 

Practically, this gives you three equations to solve. One for the first piece, one for the last piece, and one that describes what's happening in all the middle pieces.

Once you've worked out the equations that describe to first, last, and all interconnecting micro-systems, you can go about solving them...

Does that help at all?

Question: What happens when we sleep? How does sleeping “recharges” us?
Answer: Someone can explain this much better, but it basically gives your brain and body some downtime to do some repairs, make some different proteins, etc. It also gives your brain time to process the events in your day and serves as a break from constant stimulation

Question: How come New York City is so expensive yet 8,000,000 people live there?
Answer: Uh, can you explain your logic of why 8 million people living there would prevent it being expensive?

Question: How come I can tell you the numbers that come before and after 7 right away but have to go through the alphabet in my head to tell you the letters that come before and after H?
Answer: You do addition and subtraction on numbers when you are a little kid all the time.  So, 7-1 and 7+1 are intuitive.  You don't do the same for letters.  H+1 and H-1 aren't drilled into your head as a little kids, so many people have to recite the alphabet to know the position of letters.

Question: What causes SAD (Seasonal Affective Disorder) and what helps?
Answer: Though not definite, some think SAD is a caused by a lack of sunlight during the winter months. People have come to this conclusion since countries that are further North are more likely to report higher rates of depression during the darker months.

Melatonin is a hormone that our bodies produce. It is important in our wake-sleep cycle, making us drowsy. Light inhibits the production of Melatonin. So, during the winter months and especially the further North (or South in the Southern Hemisphere), we are exposed to less light and thus increasing the production of Melatonin.

Blue light (wavelengths between 460-480 nm) has the effect of halting production of the hormone. To help mitigate SAD, one can use light therapy. This is pretty much a box with a  bulb that produces the necessary wavelengths that one stares at for a period of time with the goal of impeding the production of Melatonin. One can also force themselves outside more often, especially on sunny days, in an effort to get as much light as possible (this is probably very difficult for extreme northern and/or cloudy areas). Exercise is also an option.

_URL_0_
_URL_1_

Question: Why do the windows in the back seats of cars not go down all the way like in the front?
Answer: It's not to keep children in the car. It's simply that there isn't enough space inside the door for the window. The bottom of a front car door is bigger than the window, so it can go entirely inside. The rear doors have a cutout for the rear wheel well, which keeps the window from being able to go all the way down.

Question: The current American immigration problem
Answer: The **unbiased** report is that the politicians are still arguing what they think needs to be done. And since they're arguing and arguing and arguing about it, nothing gets done. 

In the meantime, many poor and desperate people from the impoverished countries of Central America will continue to immigrate illegally to the USA. 

They will do the jobs which most US-Americans refuse to do, like agricultural work and cleaning jobs.

Question: Herman Cain's 9-9-9 Plan
Answer: It regards taxes. 9% tax on corporate income, 9% tax on individual income, and a 9% national sales tax across the board. 

of coarse this is impossible, but people are having fun with herman, and I think he is having fun too

Question: Why is it I must wear I seat belt and have to get safety checks on my car constantly but people can drive in a Jeep with no doors or sit in a school bus with no seatbelts?
Answer: For jeeps I know its safer tp have your doors removed when off roading so you can jump out if needed when rolling. As for busses without the seatbelts im assuming its becausw the vehicle is so large it will blow through most vehicles but ya never know, thats why our god, google, is here to help

Question: Why is it that some days after my hour long drive home, I cannot remember the journey at all?
Answer: The human brain has (as I understand it- could be wrong) a bit of an autopilot function. However, with this said, if the brain detects a problem, it pops out of it. That's the reason why you start paying attention just as the guy cuts you off, from what I understand.

Question: Why do a lot of hospitals have religious connections?
Answer: For centuries medical care was provided by churches and temples. This is because for many religions care for the sick is a major command of their faith. This tradition has carried on into modernity and a lot of hospitals are heavily funded by religious groups, and many are physically owned by them with the religious group actually paying to have it built and owning the land.

Question: Friendzoning
Answer: Someone is in the friend zone when they have romantic feelings for a friend and that friend does not have romantic feeling in return. Orientations are not a factor. 

With this there are a few outcome possibilities. 

1) The person with Romantic feelings ignores them and continues being a friend. Often at the cost of severe emotional pain. 

2) The person with Romantic feelings shares their feelings with the person they are in love with (note I say love, not a crush). They work through the awkwardness and the friendship is strengthened. 

3) The person with Romantic feelings shares their feelings with the person they are in love with. They do not work through the awkwardness and the friendship is lost. 

That is what the real friendzone is. Many however use it as an excuse to complain on the internet. This leads the ignorant to assume that the phenomena does not exist when it does.

Question: How are the elements in the 7th row of the periodic table created in a lab?
Answer: Particle accelerators fire streams of one type of atom at another type of atom. The kinetic energy is enough overcome the repulsive forces, and smash the nuclei together, creating new elements. It is nuclear fusion, not chemistry, so while you can't change an element through chemistry, you can through physics.

Question: Why does licking your lips make them dry out?
Answer: Moisture is kept in your skin by a thin layer of oil. This includes the skin on your lips. When you lick your lips, it wipes away those oils, allowing water to evaporate from the skin, causing them to dry out.

Question: From a biological standpoint, what is happening to these guys?
Answer: They're faking it.

This will make you light headed and dizzy, but it won't make you hallucinate. You can achieve the same thing by huffing co2, and it's because the buildup of c02 in your blood.  (You said oxygen deprivation, close enough, but you don't actually feel that, when you're drowning or something, what you experience is caused by co2 buildup in your blood)

Question: How do corporations and wealthy individuals minimise their tax? Can a 'regular joe' use the same techniques?
Answer: Others have given you an answer, but not very good, concise answers... 

Everyone can, and does, minimize their taxes.  A great many individuals donate cars, clothes, etc, and take those donations as deductions against their taxes; that is tax avoidance, just the same as companies do.  

The difference is that companies and wealthy people have much larger sums of money with which to play.  

There are several individual tricks which are only available to certain taxable entities (corporations and partnerships).  A person in a partnership, for example, can turn almost all of his income into capital gains and therefore greatly reduce his tax burden.  Capital gains rates have been modified recently, but they used to be 15% whereas a wealthy person could be paying around 40% in income taxes.  When we're talking about millions per year, that is a great savings.  

But doing this is all completely provided for in the tax code, it is a feature, not a bug; therefore it is not a loophole but mere, legal, avoidance.  

Generally, how partners in a partnership can characterize their income as capital assets is: all the income, according to the law, passes through the partnership to the individuals.  Then, and this is the "trick," the individuals loan that money to the entity which then pays the individuals payments on the loan; those payments are characterized as capital investments of the individual and not regular income.

Question: Why do people have favourite colours, and for what reason is my favourite colour different to someone else's?
Answer: personal aesthetics are a complex issue. why one person likes a song or color or food is not really explainable other than that it happens to be what they like. sometimes people have a reason for liking a color. "i like red because fire trucks" "i like blue because ocean" but for a lot of people it is "just because" 

so there is no answer to your question

Question: Why is Indian food so spicy? why people in hot climates tend to eat spicy food?
Answer: Spicy food in hot climates causes you to sweat, which, ironically, causes your body to feel cool.

Spice was never used to cover the smell of old meat. If you were wealthy enough to afford spices, you can bet you weren't eating old meat. Besides, spices were too valuable to just dump on meat. What little you had would be used very selectively.

"White people" have no special aversion to spicy food. However, spicy food is an acquired taste that you develop and Caucasians/Northern Europeans traditionally don't use a lot of spice so they often aren't used to it.

Question: How do Bionic limbs function?
Answer: The go to way is to take a bunch of sensor units, attach them to whatever muscles are left in the stump, and convert their muscle movements into electric signals. 

These signals are then used for rather rudimentary commands. Hand prostheses for example are either "pull to open" or "pull to close". If you don't pull, the prosthesis goes back into its default. Imagine that your hand was always closed, but would open when you flex your biceps. Something like this.

Now, ever amputation is different. Not only does the prosthesis have to be fitted neatly on the stump of the patient, it also has to be done in a way that it stays in place, but without putting to much wear in the stump. That's one reason for why they are tailor made.
  
Also, in each amputation different muscles in different places will be retained. You need to check where a clever place is to actually put those sensors mentioned above.

Question: Jupiters Great Red Spot and why it has lasted for such a long time?
Answer: Jupiter's Great Red Spot has been around for as long as we've been able to SEE Jupiter with the first telescopes. Some of the main reasons its lasted for so long include the fact that Jupiter is a ball of gas that slowly becomes denser as you descent into it. There are no mountains to collide into or plains to dissipate its power. Just atmospheric currents to further fuel it or sap a bit of power here and there. Secondly, Jupiter radiates more heat than it receives from the sun, which is opposite of Earth. Our storms are driven by solar power. Jupiter's are driven by the heat of its gravitational contraction, which has been going on since its formation. Its theoretically possibly for there to have been GRSpots on the face of Jupiter since its creation, though probably not the one we're looking at now.

TL;DR: Jupiter's GRS couldn't form on Earth and the storms are powered by inverse processes. Earth's are solar-powered and peter out when they hit land. Jupiter's comes from continual interior heat on a landless planet, which is why its so long-lived.

Question: Why do most single-vitamin supplements cost the same amount as a multivitamin containing the the same vitamin, plus many more?
Answer: My best guess is that 90% of costs is in the manufacture of product, packaging, and distribution. The cost of vitamins raw materials are very very minimal.

Question: Chrysler is currently requesting a subsidy from Canadian federal and provincial governments in return for expanding investment. Why do profitable private corporations need government subsidies?
Answer: Chrysler: We need a new factory, we could put in in Mexico, or we could put it in Canada....Mexico *is* cheaper...

Canada: Here's some money, pick me! Pick me!

Chrysler: Well, if were to put a factory in Canada, we could put in in Quebec, or we could put in in Ontario...Quebec is...

Ontario:  Here's some money, pick me! Pick me!

Question: What does the US spend tax money on? How does it compare to other countries?
Answer: First, some perspective. The total budget of Canada is 279.2 Billion Canadian dollars (249 Billion US Dollars). The US budget is 3.77 Trillion US Dollars. In other words, the US budget is more than 13 times the size of Canada's budget.

The US spends more discretionary money (more on this in a second) on the Department of Defense (526 Billion) each year than the entire budget of Canada. We spend nearly 80 Billion on health services. 70 Billion to the Department of Education. 60 Billion to the Department of Veterans Affairs. The list goes on and on.

And that is just discretionary. More than 60% of the US budget, or more than 2 Trillion Dollars, is "mandatory spending," or spending that does not need to be appropriated. The largest of these are Medicare and Social Security, which together account for about 1.5 trillion dollars.

Question: How is mandatory overtime legal?
Answer: The U.S. Fair Labor Standards Act does not limit the number of hours someone can work in general.  There may be state laws ( [here is an example](_URL_0_) ) or occupation-specific laws (e.g. the number of hours an over-the-road truck driver may work) that do.  The FLSA only requires time-and-a-half pay for hours worked over 40, if the employee is not "exempt" (basically, if they're salaried).

The idea is that paying time-and-a-half is supposed to be economically disadvantageous to employers-- it would be cheaper to hire a new employee for less rather than to require employees to work for more.  But sometimes that's not the case, or sometimes hiring someone else is not convenient.  So employers can force employees to work overtime.

If the employee is forced to work so much that they can no longer do their job safely, other entities, like OSHA, might get involved as well.

Question: If Amazon is estimated to be worth $175bl, why don't they choose to undercut Netflix on service and movie selection? What is stopping Amazon from outdoing Netflix for streaming?
Answer: Could Amazon do this? Sure, with enough money they could, though it would be a significant amount of money. Amazon is worth a lot of money not because it's sitting on huge reserves of cash, but because they have very high revenues and own a fair bit of land and facilities that make them a lot of money.

In other words, they'd have to lose the stuff that makes them money, like distribution warehouses, in order to fight Netflix on their home turf (streaming). 

EDIT:spelling

Question: Who keeps maps up to date?
Answer: Google, and other mapping companies, of course have a group of workers to update their own maps system, but there is no way a small group of either can keep up, so that's why users can report bad/missing data. 
  
Google also has Map Maker, where people, like myself, can contribute to add and review roads, businesses, etc. I have added new roads in newly built subdivisions, I've added buildings, businesses, walkways at my university, etc. Now, the company that made the subdivision can add it to Google if they want to. If you own a business, you can upload your floor plans to Google so that you can see the layouts not Google Maps, from stores like Home Depot and Lowe's to whole shopping malls, no more need to wander around and look for a directory. For the property lines, Google gets this data from a 3rd party.

Question: What authority permits the US National Guard to be deployed overseas?
Answer: Article 1, Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution (the Militia Clause) also authorizes use of the National Guard under continuing state control but in the service of the federal government to "execute the laws of the Union, suppress insurrections and repel invasions."

The premise behind the national guard is that state governors have direct control in assessing what are the needs and demands for its usage. However under certain specific instances (one is noted above, e.g invasion) the president can pull the trigger and enforce that the national guard must be deployed. In the case of invasion governors would no longer have explicit control of the national guard - the president would.

In today's age we live in a very federal government-focused society, as opposed to an age where state's rights are clearly defined, defended, and respected. You can expect Obama to pressure governors to deploy for the purpose of defending America from Ebola spreading here any further than it already has. Either that or he will boldly attempt to usurp any control of the national guard away from governors.

We are America, we defeat deadly viruses with soldiers  &  guns apparently :)

Question: How come we never taught birds of prey to fish for us?
Answer: We do.  Chinese fisherman have been using comorants to fish for thousand years.

But it's highly inefficient compared to netting.

Question: Cancer , how does it attack the body , and why haven't we found a cure yet ?
Answer: Cancer is when a part of your body grows uncontrollably.  Normally the result is piece of your body that doesn't actually do what it should (the super growth part, often just flesh not functioning stuff like an extra heart or lung) called a tumor.  

There are LOTS of different cancers because "uncontrolled growth" is  a pretty broad category.  Because it presents in so many ways, and is rooted in our actual DNA being messed up and causing our own body to mess up we can't really apply cures what work in other fields.

We cure bacteria by putting antibiotics in our body to kill it.  We prevent some diseases by exposing our bodies to dead or weak versions so our built in defenses can get stronger.  Cancer is our own body so these approaches don't work.

Obviously more complicated but I don't know how to expand and still ELI5.

Question: Why do need to be taught to lift with our legs and not our back? Is lifting with our back a learned behaviour that we need to unlearn?
Answer: Upright standing is a very recent condition for humans on an evolutionary timescale. Our spine isn't that much different from our primate ancestors, who had horizontal backs, and therefore adapted to carry weight in a very different way. This is the root cause of most of our back problems. However, our instincts haven't changed much since then either. Bending over to pick something up feels natural because that's basically the position our ancestors were in all the time..

Question: How do credit repair agencies work?
Answer: Working for a credit union and fixing people's credit daily I can tell you this. Almost every credit repair company / site / expert is a waste of your time and money. There is a reason they are numerous. They mostly exist as a paid Googler. And they run a hard pull on your credit on top of that. 

Most of these companies simply grab a form doc off Google with less than proper grammar, a lot of big sounding "legal" words and demands. They take this doc and shape it for the customer to say things like "I am not responsible" or "this was my ex wife not me". They force experian, transunion and or equifax to submit inquiries to all places the customer has loans with for example and we verify if the letter they sent is accurate (it isn't). 

The objective here is to send letters to the major bureaus and subsequently places the customer owes money to in hopes that they will remove late pays, credit lines, charge offs etc. 

But the reality is that almost never happens. These places take your money knowing full well nothing truly gets accomplished. You aren't getting bad trade lines or charge off removed because of a letter mentioning the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 

TLDR I'm sure some companies are reputable and will pay down your debt so you can then pay fewer payments but most of the places you'll find just charge you and won't produce any results.

Question: what is the purpose of the US Congress forming a committee specifically targeting ISPs and the migration to IPv6?
Answer: Committees are used to study a specific issue, and draft the first forms of a bill before they open up to general voting/debate. They are specifically targeting the issues of ISPs because of the FCC choosing to get rid of Net Neutrality.

Question: - How can you make a profit on a tuna or bluefin when buyers bid up to $1 million for one fish?
Answer: If you were a millionaire, how much would you pay to eat just a meal of a species you know is about to become extinct? If money were no object and somebody offered you a bit of dodo, what would you pay?

There's a cachet to it, even if it's a bit abhorrent to most people.

So you have 200kgs or more of fish. You only need to sell it at $50,000/kg to make a profit. That for very, very high quality bluefin is not impossible, and even if you decided to take a loss on it, think what it says about your restaurant...

Question: How does our body read data (genes)
Answer: Genes are made up of sequences of four different types of bases: A, T, G, C. You may have heard that DNA comes in two strands, the double helix. One strand binds to the other strand through matching up bases to their "complementary base" on the other strand. An A on strand will bind to a T on the other, G to C, C to G, and T to A. 

When a gene is being analyzed, the strands are pulled apart and specialized proteins build a *new,* shorter strand out of a substance similar to DNA called RNA. The strand is built on the principle of complementary base pairing, and is packaged and transported away from the DNA once the copy is complete. 

Once the copy is made, it gets picked up by a "ribosome," a little cellular machine. The ribosome looks at the base pairs in sets of three (each set is called a codon). Using complementary base pairing, it builds a protein. 

It can do this because it has access to amino acids, the building blocks of proteins. Each amino acid has a chunk of three bases attached to it that are specific to the type of amino acid. The ribosome matches each codon to the corresponding amino acid, and moves on to the next codon. The amino acids are strung together in a chain, and when the process is complete the chain folds into a protein. 

Once the protein is complete, it performs a function based on its shape and what amino acids it's made of.

Question: Do water pressure valves actually reduce water consumption?
Answer: Depends on the application.  Probably works in the shower if you don't change how long you shower.

But for static uses like your toilet, it will just take longer for it to fill.  Its still using the same amount of water.

People used to stick a brick or something in the tank to reduce the amount of water it uses.  But this is back in the day of the 5 gallon (or more) tanks.  With the smaller ones now, putting a brick in there may severely impair the ability of it to flush.

It may help a tiny bit when it comes to stuff like showers.  But to a toilet, or if you're filling a pot with water to cook, it'll just take longer to fill.  And in a shower situation, it may take you a little longer to rinse your hair, for example.

30% seems a bit high though for household stuff.  For landscaping it may make a major difference as long as you don't change the watering times.  The only issue is that the sprinklers may not cover as much (lower pressure means the water isn't thrown as far).

But for things that use a set amount of water...the consumption will be the same.  Depends on what you do with it.

Question: Why is it on hot days, I can stick my hand out a car window while driving and feel a cool breeze?
Answer: The air outside the car isn't at 100% relative humidity.  There's room for it to absorb more water by evaporation.  So as you stick your sweaty disgusting paw out your window, the water on your nasty mitts gets evaporated quickly as it is exposed to a great deal of air in a hurry.

Evaporation causes cooling, so your hand cools down.

Question: Why is Google not providing external sd card support for the nexus, moto g etc?
Answer: Google Drive.  If you don't have local storage that gives you more incentive to put your files in Google's cloud.

Question: Why is the Lion so widely used in European Heraldy even though they are mostly found in Africa?
Answer: Well, the dragon is used a lot too, even though it's found... no where.

It isn't about the actual, physical representation of the animal. It's about the symbolism and ideas it represents. Europeans thought of the Lion as "king of the jungle." A powerful, noble animal at the top of its food chain. There really isn't an analogous animal in Europe (aside from wolves, which always had a negative connotation).

Question: Why did we Americans name our sport "Football" when there was already a sport called that with entirely different rules?
Answer: Because your premise is faulty. There is no single game whose English name is "football". Football is a category of games played on foot and using a ball (in opposition to something like polo that uses a ball but is played on horseback).  Games within the football category include Association Football, American/Gridiron Football, Australian Football, and Rugby Football.  Also, most of these had their rules codified in the 1860s, so there's not even much if a which came first. 

The form of football that became popular in Europe is Association Football, this becomes more evident when you look at what FIFA stands for (federation Internationale de *football association*).

Fun fact: the term "soccer" to refer to association football comes from England. In the 19th century students at Oxford had a tendency to create slang names by adding an "-er" to the end, thus Rugby became Rugger and Association Football became Assoccer and then finally Soccer. 


Tl;dr: there is no single game whose English name is football. Your premise is faulty.

Question: Why drones are so prevalent right now. What tech breakthrough occurred to make them so common and versatile all of a sudden?
Answer: Probably the driving factor was the reduction in the price of accurate gyroscopes, which keep the drones oriented correctly.

Question: How does the Fight Club "soap-bomb" work? Is it really possible?
Answer: In the movie it was a fake way to make explosives but in the book it described a real way to do it. They changed it in the movie adaptation to keep peele from actually doing it

Question: Is sleeping with "one eye open" possible. Could your vision work while you're fast asleep?
Answer: No, that's just an expression. 

You can't literally do this. The expression means to sleep lightly and while some people *might* be able to semi-consciously sleep "lighter" on some occasions, most people have no control over that. 

Interestingly, some animals (like dolphins) only have half of their brain sleep at any given time, so that they can still breathe while sleeping. It has been found that this phenomena is more common than we thought, and some animals use this method in order to stay alert while sleeping.

But, as I said, humans do not share in this ability.

Question: My six year old daughter just asked what's beyond the edge of outer-space. I have no idea how to answer. Help?
Answer: A common misconception is that the universe is like a bubble or a balloon, this is due to the somewhat related analogies such as "The universe is expanding!" and so we think to ourselves, "Well, it must be expanding into something!"  Or that we live in the world, which is in space, so "Space must be inside something!"


It's a difficult thing to imagine. It is itself, it isn't inside anything.  It is bound to itself so when we travel in one direction forever we can end up right where we started. There isn't a way to study anything 'outside' the universe as the question doesn't make sense.  The concept of 'outside' can't apply here in the everyday sense. 

Also, remember that the universe is expanding, so for our intents and purposes, we study what is called the *observable* universe - this is the part of the universe that we can see, because its light has reached us.  But there is more beyond that since the universe is expanding so fast.  We can't see those parts and so it isn't dealt with normally.

Question: Can smoking related diseases be noticed before becoming full blown?
Answer: This is a tricky one. 

I guess it depends what you mean by noticed. 

Let me preface this by saying it seems any consumption of cigarettes causes an effect on body tissues. It is noxious and causes a response. 

The end diseases we associate with smoking, at least personally, are emphysema, lung cancer, and heart disease. 

Emphysema, or its early manifestations can be picked up early. Shortness of breath on exertion and such. 

The problem with most of these things is our bodies amazing capacity to cope and the inbuilt physiological reserve we have. 

In the lungs this means we open more airways when we don't have enough oxygen because of emphysema or cancer. So you don't really notice the deficit. 

In heart disease it is much the same. Most of us are only using a percentage of our overall cardiac or respiratory capacity. So when there is a problem our body just works a bit harder. This causes some other problems. 

The chronic use of most cigarette smoking means that there is also continually irritation and injury meaning nothing gets a chance to recover properly either 

Very basic over view. Hope it helped

Question: e^i*pi + 1 = 0
Answer: This is a special case of Eulier's formula:

e^ix = cos(x) + i*sin(x)

Because sin(pi) = 0 the imaginary component disappears and you're left with cos(pi) = -1; adding 1 gets you to zero.

It's a mathematical coincidence but a pretty cool one.

_URL_0_

Question: What defines something as edible or inedible? How is this determined?
Answer: Can you eat it and not die, get sick, or gain some nutritional or functional benefit? Then it's edible. 

Plastic isn't edible because you can't absorb nutrients from it or use it as food for long.

mercury isn't edible because you'd die pretty quickly from mercury poisoning. 

Bread is edible because you can sustain yourself on it

Poison ivy isn't technically edible because, well, it's slightly poisonous.


.

Basically, something is edible if it is fit to be eaten without negatively affecting you.

Question: Why would a company sell stock and buy it straight back?
Answer: Sell when it's high, stockholders may start selling too which can bring down stock price, buy it all back again. Profit.

Question: Why can you replace only the glass in some phones and you have to replace the full display on others?
Answer: On some phones, the screen is bonded (glued) to the glass.  This was done supposedly to achieve a clearer image, having less material and an air gap between the top surface and the display.  

So rather than use a heat gun to carefully separate the screen from the glass (and put it back together with the same quality as manufacturing), I usually just opted to go the easiest route and replace the whole unit.  It’s usually not that much more expensive anyway.

Question: What is the process they use to teach deafblind individuals, like Helen Keller, to read and write?
Answer: Well, first they have to learn how to communicate in some nontrivial way (i.e. communication more involved than simple things like pushing and pulling).  Once they have learned some such way, learning another such way (such as Braille) is a straightforward (if difficult) process - they can then have the new system explained to them.

In Helen Keller's case in particular, Anne Sullivan first taught her to communicate by running her fingers over Keller's palm in certain patterns (corresponding to letters) and giving her the related object.  For example, she'd spell out "D-O-L-L" and then give Keller her doll.  Of course Keller at first didn't understand this or even the point of it, but eventually she figured out what Sullivan was trying to teach her.  Once that major breakthrough was made (famously with the word "water" and running water), nothing held her back.

[Here](_URL_0_) is a fascinating video that's not exactly what you're asking about, but strongly related.  It's a video of Sullivan and Keller, with Sullivan describing how she taught Keller to "hear" spoken language and to speak herself (this was after Keller was taught the spell-on-palm method I mentioned above), and the both of them demonstrating the process that they used.

Question: if you need yogurt to make yogurt, how was the first ever yogurt made?
Answer: You don't actually need yogurt to make yogurt.  The acidophilus bacteria needed to make it occur in the stomach linings of most young mammals.  Cheese and yogurt could be made by accident if you carry milk in a bag made from a lamb, calf, or kid stomach and bump it around in the hot sun.  Please don't try though!

Question: Why does a refrigerated can of juice take so long to return to room temperature after it has been removed from the refrigerator?
Answer: There are no stupid questions. Only stupid people.

Question: What stops someone from opening the emergency exit on a plane?
Answer: Their feeble human muscles. 

Doors on jets are designed so that they have to open inward before they swing outward.  That means that to open them, you have to be strong enough to overcome not just the weight of the door, but also the difference between the pressurized atmosphere inside the plane and the low pressure air at 10 or 30 thousand feet.  I've seen estimates as high as it being equivalent lifting 1,500 lbs.

Question: How come all these amazing breakthroughs I see in articals such as cancer treatments and battery advancements just seem to disappear and never to be heard from again
Answer: Because by adding the phrase 'amazing breakthrough' to an article, they've made you more likely to read it. But in most cases the article either describes an idea someone had that may or may not work and hasn't been tested yet, or a single step in the right direction on a path with millions of steps to go before that battery advances, that cancer gets cured, or that frikken shark gets a frikken laser on it's head.

Question: Why do little kids elongate words (such as drinky, milky, nappy, etc) when you would think its easier to just say one syllable?
Answer: It comes from parents usually. The parents use it as it's been shown to help kids learn, specifically the repetition. Parents probably won't say "milky", they'll say "milky milk", it helps little kids learn easier. From that the kids shorten it to just "milky" since that's the first word.

Question: Why is it so much more expensive to send texts and make phone calls internationally?
Answer: The string that ties your tin cans together gets really expensive when you get further away.

In reality, because they can.

Question: What makes it frowned upon for OPs to respond to their own post?
Answer: The interwebs culture views it as spammy. Use an edit to your original post instead. After someone replies to your OP then it is OK to respond with one new post.

Question: How do tribute bands not have to pay royalties?
Answer: Tribute bands that play only at venues that have contract with a licensing agency (such as BMI or ASCAP) are covered by that for licensing. Or, a really popular tribute band may have directly handled the licensing. Many cover bands, however, are performing illegally, and just hoping not to get caught. A small bar band isn't likely to be noticed. if anything, the venue is more likely to be fined.

Here's an interesting paper done on this:
_URL_0_

Question: Difference between bisexuality and pansexuality.
Answer: Seems to me that the difference is very nuanced. Bisexual means being attracted to both males and females, while pansexual means being attracted to any human, the difference being that transgendered or in between gender people or whatever are included on the pansexual menu while they are not specifically included for a bisexual. 

It is confusing because we think of bisexual as being attracted to either men or women (gender), or males and females (sex), so I suppose there could be a bisexual person that is only attracted to men and women but only the male sex, while all pansexuals are attracted to men and women who are either males or females or in between.

Question: If California is running out of water, why do we continue to allow industrial agriculture to continue creating more and more water sucking farms to turn a profit and ship goods out of state?
Answer: It's not obvious to me that there is actually a trend of new farms sprouting up. The place to look would be [USDA statistics]
(_URL_0_). We don't have the numbers since the drought, ie the difference between 2014 and 2015 yet. If this is really going on, it doesn't look to me like part of a long-term trend: there were 77 900 farms in 2013, as opposed to 76 400 farms in 2014. Total land in farms was unchanged, at 25.5 million acres in both years.

Looking back a few years: there were 77 900 farms in 2012, with 25.6 million acres of farmland; 81 500 farms in 2010 and 2011, with 25.4 million acres of farmland in both years.

There seems to be a trend of fewer farms, but bigger ones on average, since 2010. If new farms are indeed being established or new farmland being used, that'll appear in next year's statistics.

TL;DR: Too soon to tell if this is even happening.

Question: How did racism begin if no one is born/inherently racist?
Answer: Humans are immensely tribal in nature. We are comfortable in our own groups and hostile to people from outside our groups, because we don't know if they can be trusted. So, it's probably a more accurate statement to say that people are by nature xenophobic, and all sorts of hostility arises from that. Skin color is just a really easy way to label someone as different and allows a simple target for that hatred and fear.

Question: The difference between all of the programming languages, and what they are used for.
Answer: There's a lot of languages (literally *thousands* - there's at least a few dozen in regular use), explaining all the little differences is beyond the scope of an ELI5.  In short, when you're designing  &  implementing a programming language, there's going to be trade offs.  The biggest one is between how easy the language is for the computer to use vs. how easy it is for the programmer.  For example, [if you compare C++ and Ruby](_URL_0_) you'll see that C++ is much faster  &  uses more less memory, but Ruby requires fewer lines of code.  Less code means a programmer can get more work done.  For many applications, programmer time is more expensive than computer time.

As I said, you're question's pretty broad - what is your interest in this?  Are you just randomly curious about programming languages, are learning or planning on learning to program for fun?  Are you considering studying computer science and/or going into a career programming?

You won't get all the answers at once - there's too much to learn  &  without some background, it wouldn't make sense in the first place.  Just work on small pieces  &  you'll pick the rest up gradually by exposure.

Question: Explain Evolution Like I'm Five
Answer: When anything is born, it is not the same as the thing it came from. You are not just like your mother, but you have some similar things- maybe your eyes are the same color, for example. Some things you get from your parents, and some things you get from living- like when you get tanned by the sun when you go outside.

Now you're fairly similar to your mom, but if you had a kid, who had a kid, who had a kid, who had a kid, there wouldn't be much of YOUR mom left in your great great grandkid. When you do this for thousands or millions of years, those changes will be more than eye or hair color.

For example, let's say that there was a "horse" in Africa who had two kids. The first kid had a short neck, and the second kid had a slightly longer neck than normal and was teased for it by the other horses. The short-necked kid had a bunch of kids, but most of them starved because they couldn't reach the leaves of trees during a drought. The longer-necked kid had a bunch of kids, and most of them lived because they could reach things others couldn't. This happened over and over and over again- with necks getting slightly longer and longer, until that "horse" became a giraffe, and no longer looked like the original mother from all those years ago. All the short-necked horses eventually died, because they didn't adapt and couldn't eat. That's evolution.

Question: How does your body remain its form and know when to stop growing?
Answer: It sounds like someone found Reddit as an easy way to answer some Biology essay questions...

Question: why prostitution isn't legal.
Answer: The modern argument typically revolves around the kind of activities that surround prostitution, (eg. human trafficking, violence, drug use). and that legalizing it could be viewed as condoning the associated activity.

Question: If a mother is vaccinated against a disease, why doesn't her child get that immunity in utero?
Answer: They do, actually, but only in some cases.

When a person gets vaccinated, they produce antibodies (or, as scientists say, immunogloblins) against an organism. Antibodies are proteins, and they come in many flavors. IgG and IgA are two types that can cross the placenta, but IgM can't (these are just acronyms for immunoglobulin G, A, and M).

Unfortunately it isn't possible to make IgG producing vaccines for every pathgen.

You must also consider that these immunoglobulins only last for a while. They are proteins, not living cells, and thus they are unable to replicate themselves. Eventually the baby will lose this immunity, so he needs to get his own vaccine. This way he will teach his immune cells to make the antibodies, and as in other things in life, what is truly learn is hardly forgotten.

Question: Why does your throat get so sore when you're sick, regardless if you have a cough or not?
Answer: Most sore throats come from the irritation of your sinuses draining, not from coughing.

Question: How does wireless phone charging work?
Answer: Electromagnetism. 

When electricity flows through a wire,  it generates a magnetic field perpendicular to the wire.  Basically to create a wireless charging system,  you reverse the process: create a magnetic field that induces electric flow in the wireless charger on your phone and that electrical flow charges the battery.

Question: Operation Gladio
Answer: "Gladio" was the code name for the NATO stay-behind operational plan in Italy during the Cold War. It involved intelligence, special forces, and regular army troops from Italy and other NATO members who, in the event of a successful Warsaw Pact invasion, would stay and fight an insurgent/resistance campaign. Other NATO and neutral countries had similar plans.

There is a lot of speculation about the involvement of various intelligence agencies (most notably the CIA) and the possible involvement of criminal groups. However as the details of the plan(s) are still secret, there is very little reliable information.

Question: How does one fix their standing/sitting posture?
Answer: I assume you're talking about hunched shoulders--that's the main problem that people have. It's usually just a result of attitude and habit, not a medical problem.

I know that correcting your standing posture will help correct your sitting posture, so I'll target standing posture in particular.

A lot of it is confidence. When you walk, take up space. Be in charge. Swagger a little. When you swagger, you pick your head up, stand taller, and push your chest out (which forces your shoulders back). 

Arch your back backward a little too. You'll feel it in your lower back. 

Do this consciously for a while, and then it'll be come second nature.

You'll know you've succeeded when people tell you that you walk like you have a stick up your ass. Your friends will make fun a little (jesting), but people notice someone with good posture. It speaks volumes about their confidence.

Good luck!

Question: How come going a certain speed on a roller coaster feels more intense than traveling in a car at the same speed?
Answer: While the speed of a roller-coaster may be the same, the quicker change in the direction of the speed (a.k.a. change in velocity due to the centripetal and centrifugal acceleration) cause more G-forces to be felt by the rider than while travelling in a car.

Question: What is the biological reason to me feeling quite energetic after taking.a vitamin B complex plus iron supplement? Is this same through the entire vitamin supplement spectrum?
Answer: Placebo effect.

The vitamin B energy thing is a result of a basic misunderstanding of how the body works.  It is true that your body uses vitamin B as a part of the process for extracting energy from foods.  People look at this and assume that if vitamin B helps make energy, then more vitamin B means more energy!  The problem is that's an incredibly simplistic and wrong way of looking at it.

Think of it like this.  Energy extraction is a very long, complicated chemical reaction.  At the end of the day, what you eat only has so much energy in it, and you only use so much energy.  No amount of vitamin B can change these things.  If your breakfast had 400 calories, your body uses exactly as much vitamin B as necessary to digest it.  Pour on all the vitamin B you want, you're not getting more than 400 calories.  At the same time, your body only uses a certain amount of energy to do anything.   If you jog a mile and burn 150 calories, all the vitamin B in the world won't change that.  To really dumb it down, think of the old baking soda and vinegar volcano.  There's only so much baking soda in the volcano to react, you could dump and entire ocean's worth of vinegar on the thing, once there isn't anything left to react with it won't make a difference.

So taking vitamin B for energy, from a biological standpoint, does nothing unless you're suffering from a vitamin deficiency.  If you eat a basic diet and don't have any medical problems, you aren't suffering from a vitamin B deficiency.  Any energy boost your getting is a mental placebo effect, there is nothing biologically happening in your body to make you create, or burn more energy than you normally would.  Unlike say caffeine, vitamin B is not a stimulant, and you won't see it advertised explicitly as such.  There is no mechanism in which the B vitamins work that either creates more energy then you took in, or prevents drowsiness.

Question: How do humans and other animals “feel” and predict changes in the weather? i.e rain.
Answer: The pressure changes with the weather, low pressure usually means rain. You know how you ears pop when you go up in a plane because of the high pressure. This is the same idea but with a change to low pressure. Some people who have achy joints can feel the pressure drop because there isn't as much pressure around their body from the air. Some people can "smell" rain if the wind is carrying it toward them. The same idea is for animals as well.

Question: Why moving air feels cold
Answer: The most energetic particles of water on your skin evaporate from liquid to gas, taking away their energy from your body and lowering the overall kinetic energy of the water on your skin. This is how heat transfers from skin to sweat, to water vapor. If the air is moving, it more effectively allows water to evaporate because it's constantly pushing the vapor away and replacing with new, dry air. It's easier to water to evaporate to dry than humid air.  So a breeze in a super humid area won't feel so cold.

Question: Why does shampoo made in the US have English and French translations as opposed to English and Spanish?
Answer: Canada has laws that products must be labeled in English and in French. Most US manufacturers also want to sell their items in Canada, so they just make one label for both countries. Most US manufacturers aren't trying to sell their products in Mexico, so they don't have a Spanish translation.

Question: Why is my eyesight blurry when I first wake up in the morning?
Answer: Most likely they're very dry. Blinking a few times and creating tears should clear it up, if not, then artificial tears/saline should do the trick.

Question: Why do we touch our forehead when we did something stupid?
Answer: We don't all necessarily do that! Touching your forehead when you make a mistake is not universal, it is cultural! As a child, you may see your mother touch her forehead after an incident and you copy it! But for another child, say in a far off country, the child might observe his/her mother putting her hand on her waist, or stomping her feet, or a variety of different actions. That child will copy it and hold that as his/her cultural norm. 

Where I am from, we virtually all say "achoo!" when we sneeze! However, as I traveled the globe, I have learned that this is not universal. How you sneeze is cultural! Different societies make different noises when they sneeze!

Question: When the roof of your mouth and the inside of your ears get itchy from allergies, and you can never seem to reach the irritated area, what is it that is actually itchy?
Answer: Histamine release.

Your body produces histamines, which causes redness and itching when it triggers from thinking your body is being invaded. That allows your white blood cells to travel easier to remove the invaders. Histamines are produced all over your body.

It's like the redness you get from eating niacin on an empty stomach. It's why antihistamines prevent the issue, since they block the production.

I don't know why it especially affects certain body parts; perhaps someone else can answer that. But that's what causes it.

Question: The division between Noam Chomsky and Daniel Everett regarding "universal grammar."
Answer: Chompsky points to the fact that no one ever sits you down as a child and says "verbs work like this, sentences work like this..." the way we do with math and such, but all kids learn language perfectly. Because of this, Chompsky believes that out brain has a set of grammar which we are born with, like settings on a new computer. When we hear our native language, it changes the "original settings" to the rules of the language we hear. Like, your computer needs a default font setting, and you set it when you boot it up for the first time, hearing your language for the first time tells your brain "Hey verbs conjugate like this". Hope that helps with Chompsky's stuff.

Question: Legality of war
Answer: So, the first notion to dissuade yourself from is that there is international law on when a war is "legal" - there is not.  Every country decides for itself whether a war is legal or not and imposes penalties if they feel it is "illegal."  And there has not been a single case in the modern international system where such a decision has come down to anything other than international politics.  For example, the League of Nations and UN Charter both forbid all offensive wars, but it only takes a quick glance at a history book to see how pointless both of those were/are.

In the US wars are governed by the Constitution, the War Powers Act, and the political reality of whats going on in the US.  Under the constitution only Congress can declare a "war" but the President is free to commit troops to combat.  Under the War Powers Act the President can only commit troops to combat for between 60-90 days without explicit Congressional approval.  

The political reality of the situation is that the President can do whatever he wants, and then after 60 days Congress can exercise a sort of veto power over the President's actions, at which point he has an additional 30 days to remove the troops.  But if the President commits troops and Congress takes no action then it is assumed that Congress has tacitly approved of the action and the troops stay.

Question: Why is it that data is always unavailable for Greenland?
Answer: Greenland isn't an independent country, for starters.  It's still part of Denmark.  Considering that it has a population of 60,000 people, using the same data as for Denmark proper wouldn't be an accurate representation.

Question: How do meteorologists predict temperatures?
Answer: They track past temperatures when conditions matched the current conditions and see what patterns emerge. They use those patterns to make educated guesses about what is going to happen in the future. Pretty much everything in weather forecasting works that way.

Question: Why Are certain areas said to be not habitable for "centuries" due to a nuclear accident, but places like Hiroshima are habitable?
Answer: Different kinds of radiation.  Bombs like Hiroshima generated a lot of quickly dissipating radiation, and very little long-lasting radiation.  The Chernobyl reactor, on the other hand, put out lots of long-lasting radiation and very little short-lived radiation.

I don't know enough about the topic to be more specific, but that's my understanding of it.

Question: what exactly is a rape kit ?
Answer: Its used to collect physical evidence from the victim, sometimes done by the victim themselves, more commonly by a nurse.

 > Although a rape kit's contents may vary by location, it may include:
 > Instructions

 > Bags and sheets for evidence collection

 > Swabs for collecting fluids from the lips, cheeks, thighs, vagina, anus, and buttocks

 > Blood collection devices

 > Comb used to collect hair and fiber from the victim’s body

 > Clear glass slides

 > Envelopes for preserving the victim’s clothes, head hair, pubic hair, and blood samples

 > Nail pick for scraping debris from beneath the nails

 > White sheets to catch physical evidence stripped from the body

 > Documentation forms

 > Labels

Question: Gut bacteria and their relationship with depression.
Answer: 90% of serotonin is produced in your gut. Serotonin regulates mood. If your gut bacteria is off, this could cause depression and anxiety. Thus, sometimes a probiotic can help with this.

Question: Where the term “late” to describe deceased came from
Answer: It's shorthand for "lately deceased". It's traditionally used to describe someone who has died recently, but as the abbreviated phrase eclipsed the full one in popular speech, it's come to describe anyone who is dead regardless of how recently they croaked.

Question: How do people make high quality GIFs of live sporting events on TV only minutes after the action occurs?
Answer: The same way all gifs are made, just quickly. They probably have a capture card connected to their TV that they set to record the whole game, so after something "gifworthy" happens they just need to trim that part of the footage and convert it using any number of programs available online.

Question: the evidence for and against global warming
Answer: The main evidence for global warming is simply that the average temperatures across the globe have been rising for decades. If you want to also include the evidence that humans are responsible and this isn't a natural cycle, the levels of CO2 in the air have skyrocketed to levels not seen in millions of years on Earth, this increase started around the time of the industrial revolution when fossil fuels started to be burned by humans, and the "accounting" that scientists have done to compare CO2 output from both human and natural factors seem to weigh heavily on the human factors.

As for evidence against it, there really isn't any. You'll hear some evidence cited by climate deniers, but as far as I know there isn't any evidence that doesn't have a peer-reviewed and published explanation for why it's either expected given the warming climate models, even if it's counter-intuitive, or why it's an erroneous interpretation of the data.

edit: I should add that you'll also hear people saying that there are climate scientists who have been caught fudging data to make their results look more alarming. This is true, but just because there's some dishonest scientists working in the field doesn't mean the entirety of climate science is a hoax or wrong.

Question: Why are bodybuilders more ripped than powerlifters?
Answer: Lifters build up their body to lift. Bodybuilders build up their body to look ripped.

Question: What is the pump and dump method in stocks?
Answer: That's where you buy a bunch of worthless stocks at a very low price. This inflates their price a bit (pump) and gives the appearance of growth. Other people see the value increasing, and may buy more stocks, thinking the price will continue to rise. If enough suckers buy stock on top of yours, you can sell (dump) what you have for significantly more than you paid. This lowers the price of remaining stocks. You gain almost exactly what the other buyers lose.


Edit: Sometimes a financial institution or investment banker will take this a step further and advise clients to buy stocks they've (the banker) already invested in. Theft and fraud.

Question: Wave-Particle Duality
Answer: Sigh... I had a nice post going and my comp crashed, you have another explanation coming I just need to condense what I previously wrote. 

To me it's easier to understand this if you know the history of the discoveries, and not just the abstract ideas.  Here we go...

Up until the beginning of the 20th century, energy was considered to be in wave form.  The equations for waves were well established and everyone was happy with it.  Then Max Planck comes along.

Max is working on the problem of black body radiation.  A black body in this case is a theoretical object which is 100% black.  Now we know that black absorbs light more than white does.  Wearing a black shirt on a hot day will tell you this.  So this black body is absorbing 100% of the light being directed towards it.

If we take the example of metal, you can see that when we heat it up it begins to emit color.  Color is just a perception of the strength of a wave.  Red has the lowest amount of energy and blue is the highest.  As the black body continues to absorb energy it will emit red light and continue on to blue as it gains more energy.  According to the wave theory this should continue down the electromagnetic spectrum and the black body should start emitting UV light and so on.  But the experiments did not match the theory.

Planck was attempting to describe the results of the experiment when he decided to take a new course of action.  Now he had worked on this for a long time and was a diehard wave supporter.  In almost a desperate effort to solve this problem he imagined that instead of waves, the energy being released from the black body was composed of individual units of energy, or quanta.  When he attempted to solve the problem this way it worked.

This is the beginning of quantum physics, or physics of the quanta.  That is how revolutionary this idea was.  From now on I will say particle instead of quanta.  Planck won the Nobel Prize for this discovery.

Now Planck didn't actually believe that the energy was in particle form.  He thought it was just a mathematical trick to solve the problem and that it didn't actually reflect reality. 

The thing is, he didn't disprove waves with this theory.  The wave equations still worked in many applications and this was a problem.  How could it be both?  

A few years pass and a guy named Albert Einstein comes along.  He discovers what we call the photoelectric effect.  Einstein was looking at what happens when light interacts with a metal.  It was known that shining light on objects could cause electrons to emit from the object, but there was one big problem.  When you increased the intensity of the light, wave theory predicted that more electrons would be knocked away from the material.  When I say intensity I mean the overall amount.  The light stayed the same, let's say it was red, but there was just more red light.

So lets say you shine red light on the surface and no electrons get kicked out of the material.  The idea was that shining more red light would eventually kick some electrons out.  This didn't work, no matter how much red light they used.  

If the light were interacting as waves, the additionally intensity should have produced some constructive interference at certain points, as well as destructive.  So some areas of the material would receive little energy because that area happened to be located where destructive interference occured.  The energy would be cancelled out, but on the other end there should be some spots where the energy increased due to the combination of the waves.  This is why they thought increasing the amount of waves would produce areas which were struck with higher energies, but this didn't happen.

Einstein figured out that it was the size of the wavelength which mattered, not how much of it was used.  Red light was not strong enough to kick electrons out.  This makes sense when you think of the individual particles or photons.  It's as if I had bullets made of paper.  I can shoot a million of them at you and it's still not going to penetrate your skin.  When Einstein increased the wavelength, or energy of the wave, he found that electrons started showing up.

His explanation came back to the particles that Planck had used to solve his black body problem.  If instead of waves, light was composed of particles, then each unit, or photon, could only have so much energy.  No matter how many photons you emitted, they would all have the same amount of energy because their wavelength was the same.  If the photons didn't have enough energy, then not a single one of them was capable of pushing out the electron.  By increasing the wavelength, the electrons were kicked out of the material because the photons struck the atoms with enough energy to dislodge the electron.

Einstein won the Nobel Prize for this.

Ok, so now everyone is really freaking out.  Now we have an experiment which directly demonstrates the idea of the quanta or particle.  Scientists began to question the previous wave and electromagnetic equations, namely Maxwell's equations.  Maxwell basically unified electricity and magnetism, this was an enormous task and he won a Nobel Prize as well.  The reason they received the initial attention was because they were pretty new, but testing confirmed that they were in fact correct.

Next comes a man named Louis deBroglie (de-broy).  He was a rich Frenchmen who decided to build his own labs and study.  As he researched Einsteins work he became convinced that light was literally both a wave and a particle.  The people around him were not happy about this and it almost cost him his doctorate.  Had Einstein not come to Paris to basically say "hey this is a pretty cool idea, he might have something here." who knows what would have happened to deBroglie.

(To be continued with the Double Slit and how deBroglie helped explain it.  If there is something I did not make clear in the above let me know and I'll try to explain it a different way.)

EDIT:  I keep feeling like I need to draw some of these explanations.  I'm about to hook up my Wacom and try to condense this down to some figures.  I can't stress enough how simple in principle some of these experiements are.  Part of the initial difficulty was how counter-intuitive some of these concepts were at the time of their discoveries (and still today but more so then)

EDIT2:  Doing some Sunday family stuff but I will post later, i drew up some of this and I think it makes more sense when you can see exactly what I mean by black body radiation and the photoelectric effect.  Again, I talk about the history because it gives an understanding of why it looks like a particle or why it looks like a wave.

Question: What makes a song more complex than another?
Answer: There are many determining factors in deeming a song complex. For instance, a simple C G A F chord progression with a guitar, bass and drums isn't quite as complex as a unique chord progression with an orchestra behind it. I'm not 100% sure what you're asking but I hope that helped answer your question.

Question: What happens to illegal drugs after they are seized by law enforcement?
Answer: They get stored in the police's evidence rooms and their files are put into archives. Then, they are sent to this big oven for incineration in a more central police station. My mom works with this stuff.

Question: why in some countries it is left lane drive and in some it is right? what are the advantages of right/left lane driving?
Answer: left side driving if more often than not a british thing, or a it happends in a country that used to be a british colony. when there still was knights on horses out on the road, the knights prefered to ride on the side of the road where they could use their sword arm(the right arm) without pullign the sword into bushes. it would also be possible to fight an oncomming attacker on horse. it also redused the risk of their scabbard hitting oncomming people. 

when it comes to left side driving, it is a lot easier (for right handed people) to mount a horse from the left side. if they had right side riding, they would have to stay in the middle of the road to mount the horse. when riding with an wagon you would prefer sitting on the left back of the horse, to controll the wagon so it would not fall of the side of the road. 

source: _URL_0_

Question: How were people able to make accurate depictions and maps of different continents in a time before satellites?
Answer: They would do it by surveying. That is going out with tools to look at and measure things directly. And using some math to estimate heights, distances, etc.

Question: Why is it that Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump seem to be the leading presidential candidates when it seems that public opinion of both is very low?
Answer: First, this is how it always is this early in campaign season. Anyone with a little bit of name recognition immediately is at the forefront, regardless of their quality as a candidate or likelihood to do well long term.

But more to the point, it's because we don't cast negative votes.

If 20% of the people love you, but 80% hate you, you don't get a score of -60. You get a score of +20. Those 80% who hate you are going to be divided up among a bunch of other candidates, or will just be left undecided. +20 is enough to be the frontrunner early on in primary season.

Note that general elections are different. A negative opinion often converts into a vote for the other guy. So now, those 80% who hate you vote for the one leading opponent and you easily lose.

Question: Why Australia has a notoriously bad internet connection?
Answer: There are a lot of things not working in Australia's favor when it comes to internet connections.

1.  They don't have many people, this means, especially for those Australians who live outside cities, that companies would not make a profit installing the infrastructure to give them fast service.  A small town in the middle of the continent?  You're lucky if your phone line even works.

2.  Australia is an island, that means if your data needs to come from off the island, you need a satellite or an undersea cable to communicate, this adds to the ping.

3.  Australia is mostly a data consumer instead of a producer or a peer.  English language movies, music, and so on are made elsewhere on other continents and have to pay the toll to the undersea cable operator to get *to* the island.  Since not as many people want data *from* Australia, service providers can't make a good *peering* arrangement (I won't charge you for my data if you don't charge me for the data I want.) and the extra cost goes to the consumer.

4.  Australian politicians were weak on market enforcement.  There were a couple major service providers that had a near duopoly on internet service, and they did mean things like charging lots of money for service, letting you download so much a month (quotas,) and making data used during "peak" hours even more expensive, because nobody was competing with them.

Only within the last 3 years or so has Australia gotten the lawmakers to agree to invest in a [National Broadband Network](_URL_0_) for their citizens, and things are slowly improving.

Question: why is my school so sensitive to religion amongst students, but also purposely doesn't serve meat on Fridays?
Answer: A lot of schools focus on creating an inclusive space for all students and staff. 

This includes recognizing traditions and cultural practises, such as 'meatless Fridays' during Lent.

Question: Why is it so hard to text with cold hands?
Answer: When your body gets cold blood circulation to your extremeties (hands, fingers, feet, legs) is partially cut off in order to preserve the heat near the core of your body where the most vital organs are.

With less blood your fingers and hands become less sensitive and less mobile and thus it makes it harder to text.

Sort of related: Consumption of alcohol widens your blood vessels and should make it easier for you to text in cold weather. Although this effect may be kind of inhibited by getting drunk as well.

Question: Where did smoking terms like "high" or "stoned" originate?
Answer: As far back as 1620, "high" meant "euphorically drunk" (i.e., on alcohol). It's that stage of drinking where you're still cheerful: your spirits are high. It didn't come to be used for other drugs until the 1930s.

"Stoned" also originally meant "drunk" and was later transferred to being intoxicated on cannabis. I can find references to it in the first meaning to the late 18th century (as "stone drunk"), but why "stone" I'm not sure. One possibility is that it's connected with phrases like "stone-deaf", which means "completely unable to hear". Maybe "stone drunk" originally meant that you were so drunk, you were totally out of it, perhaps even unconscious.

Question: Is there a difference between things that "glow" and things that only show up under UV light? What is the mechanism for each?
Answer: Glow in the dark = Phosphorescence

Show up under UV = Fluorescence

From Wiki "The most striking example of fluorescence occurs when the absorbed radiation is in the ultraviolet region of the spectrum, and thus invisible to the human eye, while the emitted light is in the visible region, which gives the fluorescent substance a distinct color that can only be seen when exposed to UV light."

So whats the mechanism? When the molecule absorbs the photon (light) it takes that light energy and gives it to an electron. The molecule then releases the energy by emitting a new photon. There is some energy loss through vibration relaxation so the 'new light' is longer in wavelength. 

Fluorescence happens faster than you can blink, like in real time. Phosphorescence can take hours to for the molecule to emit the new photon. This is because in Phosphorescence the electron goes into what is called a 'forbidden state'.  See this [wiki] page(_URL_0_)

Question: why do ludicrously over-priced listings exist on sites like Amazon, even for common, nondescript products?
Answer: The most common reason for this is that these items are have code/algorithms from their owners that continually adjust the price relative to some other items, and occasionally they mess up and end up at these crazy values. 

In the past there were some funny situations that people found of algorithms selling the same or similar products fighting against each other with issues and prices get hilarious like multiple sellers selling the same thing from over $1M for some random book or food item that is otherwise like $20.

Question: Why does stretching when you wake up feel so good?
Answer: Your joints’ metabolism works through the liquid in the joints. When they are not moving and the fluid stays still, the process makes the liquid have the metabolites, which makes the cartilages somewhat sore. So when you stretch and the fluid gets stirred around, you feel the refreshment.

A similar thing happens during pregnancy when the child’s metabolites gather in the woman’s body overnight causing morning sickness

Question: How do big companies prevent petty theft from employees?
Answer: Registers are computerized and have a log of all the transactions. Each clerk starts with a fixed quantity of cash and it gets counted at the end of the shift.

This is part of why so many stores have strict policies about giving a receipt with every purchase. It forces employees to put every order into the system.

Question: Why does the the human mind ignore the second "the"?
Answer: There's a phenomenon called [attentional blink](_URL_0_) where, when you're rapidly presented with stimuli, your brain will perceive two identical stimuli in a row as a single stimulus.  Basically, your brain sees "the the" and assumes there was only one.  

In nature, identical stimuli in rapid succession are vanishingly rare - if you see two crouching tigers from the same angle and in the same position in a quarter of a second, it's much more likely there was only one tiger and you just blinked; so your brain edits your perceptions with that in mind.

Question: why do cats have to smell everything? Why can't they just look at the things?
Answer: The cat's response:
Why do humans have to look at everything?  Why can't they just smell things?

Each of your senses gives you a wealth of information.  Humans are very visually-based creatures, for a variety of reasons (leading evolutionary theories that I've heard have to do with brachiation - swinging through trees, which means we have to SEE the trees to grab them; and avoiding dangerous creatures, specifically being able to SEE snakes and spiders - because they're hard to smell or hear).

Cats, on the other hand, have evolved to fit a different niche.  Humans, as relatives of apes, evolved to mostly eat plants and bugs, which don't require a lot of hunting, so we don't need a particularly great sense of smell, since we just kind of look for a plant to eat.  Cats are obligate carnivores: they *must* eat meat (even dogs don't *have* to eat meat if you give them the right vegetarian diet).  So they have to hunt, and that means tracking down small critters, which relies a lot on smell.

We also evolved a very complex society, and we use sound to communicate mostly.  Cats do use sound, but they also use a lot of chemical signals, too.  That also requires smell.  Using sound was better for us, so again, our noses aren't quite so good.

All of that is to say that there's a lot of information available through smell that isn't available through sight, and vice versa.  We don't need the smell information, so our noses aren't as good.  But cats do, so they spend a lot of time sniffing around.

Question: Which virus scanners to avoid, which to use, what should I look out for.
Answer: Let me fix your account with Webroot.  PM me your e-mail address you used to register and I will see what I can do.

Question: Why isn't there a spending limit in US political campaigns like a salary cap in sports?
Answer: [There are.](_URL_0_) Problem is they have so many loopholes, candidates still amass over 500 million USD.

Question: What is the logic behind AI in strategy games such as Starcraft or Xcom.
Answer: In starcraft, each unit has a "counter-unit".  At the highest difficulty, an AI will likely have one of its workers or cheap units in your base, watching your build, while simultaneously building the counter to what you have.  This is how it decides upon the macro side of the game.  For the micro (individual skirmishes or fights), each unit has a given value to variables such as damage, range, and speed, and the AI can make a decision to fight, run, or a combination of the two based on the units it owns and the units you own in each respective fight.  


If you think about it, starcraft isn't a hard game to learn from a "what-to-do" standpoint of what you should be building and which fights to pick and which ones to run from.  The hard part of the game is getting your ideas from your head to the game while managing everything simultaneously, but an AI can do this all instantly, making it quite difficult to best the hardest AI's.  All it has to do is simply separate the big picture (buildings and units) from the small stuff (fights and movement).  


Source: High master rank in starcraft with lots of bot games played as well.

Question: Why Gluten-Free diets are so popular now
Answer: Eating a gluten-free diet is both extremely strict and generally devoid of foods that the average American binge eats. Most of the success of the diet isn't specifically due to the absence of gluten, but due to the dieter's restricted calorie intake and avoidance of nutrient-deficient foods.

Basically, you aren't healthy being gluten free because of the gluten- you're healthy because you stopped eating so much crap.

Question: Why don't any animals have to wipe their ass, but humans do?
Answer: Animals don't need to *wipe* their ass, because they lick it or rub it to the ground. Some animals don't feel the need to clean anus at all, because their shit is dry enough to not make a mess. 

If humananimal wants to clean their ass, and they don't want to rub it to ground, hand need to be used, because tongue can't reach the hole.

Question: What is a quantam entanglement?
Answer: Let's say you have two pieces of chocolate. You know that one of them has caramel inside and one has nougat inside, but they look the same and there's no way to tell the difference. You give one to your friend. Your friend takes it on a trip far away. Later you bite into your chocolate and find out that it has caramel inside. You instantly know, without needing to communicate, that your friend's chocolate has nougat inside.

Correct me if I'm wrong but I think this is essentially what quantum entanglement is about.

Question: Why is fiberglass so itchy?
Answer: Fiberglass is literally made of glass fibers. Like tiny threads.
Glass is sharp, especially if it's the size of thread. So if it pokes you, it penetrates the top layers of the skin a little, and this causes irritation. 

The fibers aren't thick or heavy enough to press in deeper so there's not much risk of them getting completely embedded in your skin. However if you're exposed to fiberglass all the time, like you work with it, fibers ending up all over your body and face can eventually get rubbed down deep into tissue and interfere with where new cells are made and this can cause problems, such as cancer. It's why if you touch a piece of broken fiberglass it feels itchy, but people who work on fiberglass production lines cover themselves in full body suits and masks as if it's toxic.

Question: Why are the majority of the reddit population male?
Answer: Why are most subreddit populations comprised of men moreso than women? 

Check out the history of reddit: [Here](_URL_2_)

It's a lot of good content to read through. For example, check out the growth and popularity of subreddits over the history of reddit: [Here](_URL_0_)

Or here, take a look at reddit in [2007](_URL_1_). 

Now, if you look at the data, the earliest popular subreddits were programming, science, politics, and porn. I won't get into why men are more likely to be discussing these topics/professions, that's a whole different ELI5, but because that tends to be the case, it is not rocket science to figure out why Reddit tends to be populated my men. 

It's been cool that reddit has grown SOOOO much and now has better representation of women, but to understand why things are the way they are, you have to appreciate the history of a thing. Reddit began as a place to talk about computers, science, and boobs. That drew in a predominately male population for obvious reasons.

Question: How Tax Havens Work
Answer: Tax shelters aren't so much used for income as for capital gains - if I own a company in the Cayman's and it makes a lot of money day trading then I only have to pay taxes on what shares of the company I sell - which qualify for a lower tax rate.

Unfortunately regular income is treated completely differently - your work reports your income to the government and they also withhold from your paycheck to pay your taxes, usually too much. There's no way to avoid that tax.

Even if you have a small nest egg that might benefit from a tax shelter you could never afford to set it up - you're talking around a million dollars to get a decent tax attorney and all the processing fees.

Question: How did something like the holocaust and nazi's happen without the law finding out?
Answer: The Nazi's happened through the law, then they were the law, then the holocaust happened when there was no law, but nazi law.

Question: Can anyone explain the court case of R.A.V. V. St. Paul in simple man's terms?
Answer: A white juvenile (R. A. V.) burned a cross on a black family's lawn (if you're not from the US, that's a very strong message of hate dating back at least a century).  At his trial, V.'s attorney moved for dismissal on grounds that this law was content based and the law violated V's first amendment rights (free speech) which was granted, this means V was not guilty of violating a law because the law was invalid.  

The dismissal was appealed (meaning one side or the other asked for a higher court to review the decision to dismiss the case).  In the US, the US Supreme court is the ultimate authority for appeals and the case eventually made it to that court.  

At the Supreme court the 9 justices voted 9-0 that the dismissal order was correct, the law did violate the first amendment (though there were different views as to the specifics of how the violation occured).  The important parts are that under the first amendment, political speech, even rephrensible political speech cannot be made illegal, absent a direct threat to someone.

Question: Why does a computer screen look pixelated and wavy on a digital camera shot?
Answer: The PPI (Pixels Per Inch) of the camera's sensor is battling with the PPI of the computer's screen. This is known as [Moire](_URL_0_).

Question: How does money laundering work?
Answer: You stole $5 from Mom. Mom will definitely know if you buy something from it. You tell Mom you walk the neighbor's dog for the weekend. You walk the dog, earn $5. Tell Mom you earned $10 walking the dog.

Question: Why do most bigger men, i.e. bodybuilders, have deeper voices?
Answer: They don't. There's no correlation between the size of a person and the size of their vocal chords, which is what determines vocal pitch and timbre.

Question: why when I fall asleep I wake up with "sleep" in my eyes
Answer: Spiders climb up to the ceiling and have competitions to see which one can shit in your mouth first. It's also why your breath is so bad when you first wake up. True story.

Question: Meditation and how you would go about learning to understand and practise it?
Answer: when you are just starting out, audio recordings of guided meditation can be fantastic. few people have the mindfulness to just up and do it alone. it's kind of like riding a bike. takes practice and trust with yourself. 

there's a lot of options and [\(unlike this recommendation\)](_URL_0_), they don't have to cost much / anything as they are [readily available online](_URL_1_). the trick, i think, is to find the voice in the guided meditation to your liking. that alone can make or break the whole thing!

    ps. it's totally okay to fall asleep at first. no big deal.

Question: How almost every book in a bookstore is written by 'New York Times Best-Selling author'
Answer: Confirmation bias. When you see that, you go "Huh, another one." When you don't, you ignore it.

Most books are *not* written by authors who've had books on the New York Times best-seller list.

Question: Why Does Conservation of Angular Momentum Happen?
Answer: Conservation laws are ultimately due to symmetries. 

Since physical situations do not depend on how a system is orientated, this *rotational invariance* gives rise to the conservation of angular momentum.

Question: How does the whiskey and water trick work?
Answer: Density. 

The water is more dense than the whisky. So water will weigh more than the whisky. They switch places since they are the same volume. The heavier water fills up the entire bottom glass, leaving the lighter whisky nowhere to go except up into the top glass.

Question: What it means when people say "You can't make up lost sleep"?
Answer: The idea is that sleep isn't totally a + - system. Sleep is meant for helping with memory and body recovery. No matter what you do, if you don't sleep that night (and on a regular schedule) the damage will already be done. You can't work on memorizing something that's been gone for a day, and if you have bodily damage rest later may help, but will not do the same as resting that same day.

Sleep's properties and such are pretty widely argued, so everyone may give a slightly different answer, but regardless of the answer your body works on a daily cycle. Everything normal must be done in that daily cycle, if it's not done, it will never be done, since your body is then on to the next cycle. Imagine each day you're working at a warehouse and each day you're told to organize a specific range of shelves. If you skip a shelf, the next day you'll have a wide range of other things to do, and even if you get done with everything else and manage to get back to what you missed, you'll never be able to organize everything correctly, and if you don't have the directions like the day prior, could never do it.

Question: How can glass get fogged up from steam and frost but our eyes can't?
Answer: Fogged up glass happens when humid air gets in contact with a cold surface and condensates there.

Our eyes have a. a layer of water in front of them, that's because you keep blinking, and b. are not cold enough to cause the humid air to condensate.

Question: How do animators pair up the voice recording with the character's lips?
Answer: Voiceovers are almost always done BEFORE animation, especially the finer points of animation like lip sync. 

Properly lip syncing is all about understanding the four basic shapes the mouth makes while speaking : Open, Closed, Wide, and Narrow. With a few special exceptions (f, v, etc.) all phonemes fit roughly into these categories. 

Example: "Tambourine" 

Tam-Bow-Reen. 

Tam: Narrow, Open. 
Bow: Narrow, Closed (with extruded lips) 
Reen: Wide, closed. 

So really only three different shapes are necessary for that word. A huge mistake of amateur or beginning animators is to try to be super accurate to every single nuance of movement in the mouth and tongue. Not only is it a wast eof time and energy, it often ends up looking odd. We don't really look at people's mouths that much when we're talking and over-animating those movements often looks a little bizarre and distracts from more important things in the scene like eye movement and gesture.

Source: Am an animator, have a degree and everything (well okay, WAS an animator).

Question: LDAP
Answer: Its a giant phonebook that provides information about you to anything linked to use that phonebook.   You can hook up computers to use this phonebook to look up details about you or someone else.  It can also store/look up your password to make sure you are who you say you are.

The giant phonebook also classifies "people's" listings into other little tiny phonebooks like the Yellow Pages.  This can make things a lot easier to organize, but is optional.

Question: How do GPS systems enter all their road data?
Answer: A lot of it is pre-existing database information from municipalities and private firms.  You can buy most of it for yourself too if you know where.  Some systems also integrate a user updated database that can quickly track changes based on individual reports and third party tracking.

Question: Why is the percentage of kids diagnosed with ADHD so high in places like America, but almost 0 in places like France?
Answer: We view it as a medical disorder, they view it at a personality trait.

Question: Military Patents, how are they enforced and why bother to make a patent?
Answer: These things are often designed and manufactured by private companies, and then sold to government customers.  The government manufactures almost nothing itself.  So all those tanks and planes and weapons are made by businesses like Boeing, Chrysler, Colt, etc.  For example, for many decades Colt held the exclusive rights to manufacture M16 and M4 rifles for the military.  Other manufacturers could not make a duplicate weapon without violating patent laws and the military's licensing agreement.

However, you are correct that any hostile country that really wanted to could copy our equipment.  China and Russia don't care about things like patents and copyright laws in the first place, so nothing is really stopping them.

Question: Why do the Alps have more glaciers than the Rocky mountains if the Rocky Mountains have a comparable number of peaks at or over 13,000 Feet/4,000 meters?
Answer: There's an enormous difference in rainfall between the Rocky Mountains and the Alps.  While these maps are pretty general, the difference is enough to be obvious. 

[The Rockies](_URL_0_) are almost entirely in the 200-400mm range with only the Northern part of the chain in the 400-800mm range.

[The Alps](_URL_1_) appear to fall mostly in the ranges from 1000mm to 2000mm.  

That's several times more precipitation (on average 3-4x).  Glaciers are formed from precipitation that remains through the year, so with less precipitation, there's less snow and as a result fewer glaciers forming.

Question: What in the world is Half Life 3?
Answer: Half-Life is a series of video games by Valve.

The first game came out in 1998, and was a huge success. The second game came out in 2004 (after being delayed for over a year) and was also a huge success.

After the seconds game, Valve decided to create new sequels as three "episodes" (which were more like expansion to the second game). The first episode, titled "Half-Life 2: Episode 1", came out in 2006, and the next episode came out in 2007. They were both also very successful. However, the third episode never saw the light of day, and fans are still expecting it or Half-Life 3. Since Valve are very hush-hush about this, fans try to look for anything that might hint on a new game being developed.

You can read more here: _URL_0_

Question: the basics of the Mac vs. Pc debate, as unbiased as possible
Answer: It generally depends on what you need the computer for.

A lot of people just want to browse the internet, email, maybe put a photo slide show together, or throw a movie together with videos from their phone or flip camera.  A Mac is really good for this.  Their main desktop computer comes with a monitor -- no messy wires, just a clean, aesthetically pleasing desktop computer.  

However, many professionals in specific fields tend to use Macs for varying reasons -- sometimes the software is a lot better (e.g. video editing), or because they're writing code on non-Microsoft based platforms and maybe want a unix based system, or they simply are buying into the culture, etc.  

They're not exploit free or anything, but the difference in malware versus PCs is dramatic -- night and day difference.  This may be particularly good for folks who aren't computer savvy and may end up infecting a PC but would be much less prone to do so for a Mac. 

The laptops are really the shining stars in my opinion.  Their battery life and power management are rarely approached by PC laptops and are overall pretty "cool" in terms of features and design.

The biggest downside to Macs are the price.  Physically there isn't much difference anymore -- there used to be but these days its nearly the same kind of physical parts in a Mac as a PC.  However, cost is definitely going to be prohibitive and that's very understandable.  The other downside is a lack of software, notably games, but one-off programs for business applications are usually not going to be written for nor ported to the Mac.  The silver lining with the software bit is that the software available tends to work really well because they have so much control over the physical parts -- it means they have a lot less variables in terms of random computer parts to have to deal with.  

People that tend to really like macs: Older folks that want a simplified computing experience.  College students.  Graphic designers.  Programmers/developers.  Movie makers.  People concerned with aesthetics.  Hipsters.

On the other hand, PCs have the much bigger range.  From bargain piles of junk to the crazy fast overclocked rigs, there's a big disparity in the PCs out there.  

PCs have the software.  Sure Mac has the most common/important stuff like microsoft office, but beyond that is where the deep and vast pool of programs for PC takes over.  Now, many of those programs could be complete garbage, but the variety is out there.  

PCs have the games.  If you are a gamer, you're going to want a PC, or run bootcamp+windows on your Mac.  While some games have native Mac support, the vast majority of games are written for Windows and Windows only.  

You can upgrade PCs.  In a desktop you could replace pretty much any major component if you wanted to.  In a Mac, the only real upgrade easy to do that's not from the factory is memory... *maaaaybe* the hard drive depending on the model.  On a PC you can extend the life of it by upgrading and replacing parts.  

PCs are relatively cheap.  If you want something basic to surf the internet and watch youtube videos you won't have to shell out a lot.  Even if you went a bit further it would still be substantially cheaper than a Mac with similar hardware.  But you can also go crazy and do a lot of neat custom stuff.  The world of PCs simply opens before you.

People that tend to really like PCs: Gamers.  Cheap people.  People on a budget.  Linux folks.  Microsoft diehards.  Mac haters.

Question: Why are Americans forced to purchase pharmaceutical prescription drugs from America?
Answer: American's go to Canada all the time to buy drugs.  It's technically illegal but the FDA generally turns a blind eye and I've never had a border guard ask me about prescription drugs.  You generally need a Canadian Doctor to write the script for you but that is easy enough to get especially if you already have a script from a US doctor.

_URL_0_

Question: how come most high schools don't teach you how to do taxes or buy a house or car?
Answer: Some view school as the place you go to be taught academic subjects. Life skills such as cooking, changing the oil, doing taxes, etc. are viewed as skills most adults have and should pass on to their children. This is not necessarily what happens in reality, but it is the reason schools put less emphasis on life skills. 

As time goes on, it seems like fewer people actually have what used to be considered basic life skills (most of my friends have no idea how to cook, yet a generation ago most people cooked their own food). But, what is in the school curriculum is, to a great extent, a political battle controlled by people who want to maintain the current societal structure, so common sense is rarely part of the decision.

Question: Why aren’t the parents of minors who take their guns and use them in crimes held criminally responsible?
Answer: Sometimes, they are.

* [Parents charged after Wisconsin boy accidentally shoots, kills 9-year-old sister](_URL_3_)

* [Kentucky parents charged when 11-year-old son shot sister in the head.](_URL_4_)

* [Ashland Sheriff: Mother charged after 8-year-old shoots his 4-year-old sister](_URL_0_)


* [Parents charged in accidental shooting of boy, 3, in Englewood (Chicago)](_URL_2_)

[Current reports](_URL_1_) estimate about half of deaths in which children under 12 shot themselves or other children led to criminal charges.

Question: Can someone ELI5 the political turmoil that is going on in Italy?
Answer: As you may already know, we just had an year of technical government, that's coming to an end after Mario Monti resigned (but he stays in charge until elections), nominated and chosen by our President after Berlusconi's cabinet *fell*.
You may have noticed, that in Italy we have as many political parties ad you can think of, but just a few have national *popularity*, you can see all of them [here](_URL_0_). 
The most important ones in this election are:

 
* Movimento 5 stelle: It's the political party of ex comedian Beppe Grillo. Basically, he's completely nuts, doesn't have any idea of how to run a country but it's pretty damn popular because he says (actually he shouts) what people want to hear, in one word: demagogic. 
* Popolo della Libertà: It's Berlusconi, yes, AGAIN. He's the one who got all of us in trouble in the first place, but people keep voting him, why? For the same reason people support Grillo, he says what people want to hear, so as above: demagogic. 
* Con Monti per l'Italia: Monti got Italy in it's worst shape, and tried relieve our economy (destroyed after years of Belusconi's bullshit), but he did it using extreme budget cuts and raising taxes, so he's not very popular, but IMHO he did what had to be done, after years of politicians doing what's best for them, not thinking about long term consequences, there's not other way out. 
* Partito Democratico: Basically it's our main left wing party (or what remained of it), that's been the opposition for as long as I can remember (excepted for a couple of cabinets that didn't last), it's leader is Pierluigi Bersani. 

The Elections are this weekend, but I don't think anyone will get the majority, in the parliament, they need to govern.

Question: What are the circles under the eyes caused by? Is it actually from a lack of sleep?
Answer: Caused mostly by genetics. The skin under our eyes is very thin. The darkness comes from blood filling in the blood vessels under the skin. No way to naturally get rid of them but they can be covered by makeup. Can look worse from lack of sleep, but also from too much sleep.

Question: Where does the stereotype of Canadians being very polite come from?
Answer: It comes from reality.

Canadians really are very polite.

Source: I'm from Scotland, I moved to Canada a few years ago.

Question: Why do we sometimes wake up with curvy lines randomly pressed into our body?
Answer: They're imprints in your skin from wrinkles in your sheets, or the way your skin is pressed against your bed.

Question: Why is weatherstripping for doors/windows hollow?
Answer: Combination of reasons, it uses less product and therefore cheaper. A large hollow foam tube can be squished when the door closes and make a good seal. A smaller solid tube will leave gaps and won't squish as easily.

Question: Why is chicken meat so different to pork and beef? Its still muscle right?
Answer: Muscles rely on two different processes for energy. Anaeorbic respiration doesn't require oxygen, but produces relatively little energy. Aeorbic respiration on the other hand produces a lot more energy, but requires oxygen.

Not all muscles are used for the same purpose. Some muscle needs more oxygen because they are used for sustained physical activity, such as marathon running. Other muscles don't need as much oxygen because they are used for short bursts, such as a 100 meter sprint. 

Muscles that need more oxygen have more myoglobin, which is a protein in muscle that binds to iron and oxygen. Myoglobin is essentially dark in color.

Chickens generally do more short bursts than animals like pigs and cows, and hence their muscles generally have less myoglobin. However, this is not consistent within the animal. Legs and wings of the chicken tend to do more consistent work, so they have a bit more myoglobin than the breast; hence "dark meat" in chicken.

Interesting side note: myoglobin is related to hemeglobin, which performs the same function in blood. If you find myoglobin in the blood, that is a very relevent diagnostic finding and something is probably wrong.

Question: How can newspapers publicly endorse political candidates and remain an unbiased source of information?
Answer: Newspapers have had editorials and opinion pieces of various kinds for centuries. Separated as much as possible/practical from the news side

Question: If a plane went above, then below, then above the speed of sound a bunch of times would it create a bunch of sonic booms?
Answer: An object travelling faster than the speed of sound is *continuously generating a shockwave* for as a long as it exceeds the speed of sound. It only sounds like a brief 'boom' to a distant listener because the plane has already flown past- to hear another one, it would have to turn around and fly past you again.

If you're having trouble visualizing it, imagine it like the [wake](_URL_0_) of a boat. Instead of waves of water, a plane makes waves of air.

Question: Space elevator..
Answer: In general terms, a space elevator usually works something like this:

1) Geostationary orbits (GSO) are roughly 22,000 miles above the Earth. An object in such an orbit is always directly above a single point on the Earth's surface.

2) The size of the satellite doesn't matter, so long as its center of gravity (CG) is on that orbital path. 

3) So, if you could build a large space station in a GSO, you could in theory build a ladder or elevator cable all the way down to the Earth's surface - it would touch down at the spot directly beneath the satellite.

4) One way to build a large space station in a GSO would be to move a decent-sized asteroid into that orbit, then hollow it out for living space and also for raw materials.

5) But to maintain the CG of the satellite, you'd also have to add mass outside the GSO path. One way to do this would be to build another ladder or cable extending outward.

6) If you can get all this to work, getting to the space station would be as easy as riding up an elevator. Continuing past the space station on the far end of the cable gets you to a pretty easy way to launch spacecraft - just get to the end and disconnect your craft at just the right moment to go anywhere in the solar system.

7) Of course, all of the materials and processes needed for this are still in the realm of science-fiction. So far, we don't have 22,000-mile-long cables that can take the forces in question, nor do we have the capability to move planetoids around the solar system.

Question: Why do companies pay money to create stock photography that is extremely unlikely to be used?
Answer: People take photos of things they think are not already available. They upload them on stock photo sites, hoping some day someone wants to use that photo and buys it off them. The photographer gets paid and the site makes a commission.

This image may look very weird and make you wonder how someone thought of that and more importantly who the hell would buy it. Who knows, a company might someday want this as a background for "Confused by your career options? Let Devry help you decide"

Question: Why is it cheaper to fly to different countries in Europe as opposed to it being expensive to fly to other states in the US?
Answer: Europe has a well developed train system which competes with the airlines.  

This drives down prices, and eliminates routes that are not profitable enough.  The flights that do exist will be cheaper, but there will be fewer of them.

Also, some European countries have national airlines that are subsidized.

Question: I'm sorry, but what the heck is a VPN?
Answer: A VPN is a Virtual Private Network.  It's a private network (like a LAN) that's set up over a public network (the internet).  It's called "virtual" because there is no real private connection, like a direct cable, or a leased line.  Instead, it uses a public connection (internet) and encrypts it to make it private.

[Here](_URL_0_) is a good analogy of what is a VPN.  The gist of it is:

Imagine computers or LANs are islands.  They are separated by the ocean, which represents the internet.  You can go from one island to the next by public ferry, but that's open to everybody.  You can also build a bridge between two islands, which is similar to a leased line: it's private but costly.  Or you can set a submarine route between the islands, which represents a VPN.  It's private like a leased line, but it's cheaper, and it uses the internet (the ocean).

Note that a VPN is a private network.  It can be very big but it's still private.  You can only go to computers that are part of the network.  You can't go directly to blocked websites via VPN, but you may use the VPN as a proxy: if chatroulette is blocked on your computer, you could connect via VPN to another computer and go to chatroulette from there.  But you don't really need a VPN for that, any proxy will do the trick.

Question: How can people do voice impressions of other people when you don't know what your own voice sounds like?
Answer: Impressionists practice with a voice recorder. That way they can hear their impression as other people would hear them and try to adjust accordingly. Ideally they would also have a recording of who they are trying to copy as well so they can hear the two back-to-back to listen for differences.

Question: Where does the heat in our body come from?
Answer: When you consume food, all that food gets broken down and absorbed by your body at a molecular level. You're turning a piece of food into it's molecules. Then your body breaks the bonds which releases heat. Breaking bonds is where that energy (heat) comes from.

Question: Why do Christianity and Islam consider homosexuality a sin?
Answer: I'm not sure what the Muslim rationale is behind it as I am not Muslim nor have looked into why the Islamic faith has that belief. But from a Christian perspective, I think you might find [this article](_URL_0_) to be helpful. In short, in Christianity the most important thing (according to Jesus) is to love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind. The second most important thing is to love your neighbor as yourself. From here you can see that the hierarchy of importance in the Christian faith should be God, others, self.  
  
The author of the article links homosexuality as a way of man to idolize. It removes God as the most important object of your love and puts yourself in his place. It should be noted that over sexualizing your heterosexual marriage would be viewed in the same way. You end up idolizing sex and that supplants your love for God.  
  
There is an unfortunate amount of focus on homosexuality as a sin within the American political arena. If a homosexual is not a part of the church then the church should remain silent on their conduct. Jesus came to save, not to condemn, and it is not the place of the church or its members to judge those outside of their faith. Furthermore, homosexuality is not greater a sin than idolizing anything else. But people tend to turn a blind eye to their spiritual neglect in the pursuit of their career or hobbies. I also think that the political left of America is quick to demonize Christianity even though it has become more and more accepting to homosexuals and more and more condemning of fringe groups like the Westboro Baptist Church.

Question: If laser guns existed, would they be making the same stock sound that we hear in the movies?
Answer: Laser guns do exist, they've been around in various forms since at least the 70s from military projects.  They don't make any noise when they shoot. There's no pew pew, and you can't even see the beam, its outside of the visible spectrum

Question: Beer in fridge vs Beer room temperature.
Answer: That would depend on several things, including the temperatures of each of the environments and the power of the fridge's compressor.

Question: What is a URL and how does it work?
Answer: A URL stands for Uniform Resource Locator, which is generally just a fancy way of saying a web address.  The various parts of the URL are used by all of the systems between you and what you're trying to access to figure out how to get you what you need.  It gives you a protocol (how to access it) and the domain (where it is on the Internet) as well as the server address (where it is once you get to the right computer).

Question: The plot of the book Heart of Darkness by Joseph Conrad
Answer: Man's journey up the Congo (the darkness) as an allegory for men's journey into himself (actually the darkness).

Question: Why do hotels skip seemingly random room numbers?
Answer: Could be for any number of reasons.

How does the layout of rooms on floor 2 and 3 compare to each other and floor 1/4? The hotel may opt to keep each floor's numbering as similar as possible vertically, even when one floor has more or less rooms

Room #233 could still be a room, just not a guest room. For consistency sake a lot of buildings that number rooms will assign a number to every room, including storage and utility areas.

Room #233 may have existed at one point but during a remodel was merged into an adjoining room or converted into something else.

It doesn't apply in your case but because 13 is considered unlucky by many people a lot of high-rise building don't have a "floor 13", and/or will only have rooms #1-12 and #14- on each floor.

Edit: Formatting

Question: how underwater pressure works
Answer: There's water on top of you, that's what causes the pressure, just like normal pressure is caused by air on top of you, go up the mountain and there'll be less pressure. Water is much heavier than air though, so going just 10 meters deep will double the pressure compared to surface.

The extra pressure is dangerous because you start with air at regular pressure inside your lungs, nose, ear canals and so on. When you double this pressure air reduces in size so it feels like you're getting crushed.

If you increase the air pressure inside yourself you can dive without getting crushed, but you have to go down and up slowly to let body adjust to new air pressure. Also at much higher pressure transferring gases through blood starts working differently so trying to use regular air becomes toxic, that limits how deep you can go by equalizing pressures.

Question: Why do some doors open inward, and some open outward?
Answer: Different building codes for safety.    Exterior doors have to open inwards do that in emergency if you need to get out, something places on the outside doesn't block the door from opening.    

Its also a safety thing so that if you push open a door, it doesn't smash someone's face whose trying to get in.

Question: Apache Hadoop
Answer: If you need to *store* a ton of data, it can break the data into little chunks and distribute them to a group of cheap computers to store. (HDFS)

If you need to *work on* a ton of data, then it can break the work into little chunks and distribute them to a group of cheap computers to work on. (MapReduce)

It breaks big problems into little chunks so a bunch of cheap computers can do it.

Question: Why do some companies make Solid State Drives (SSD) that are slightly different from one another in size (i.e. 480GB vs. 500GB vs. 512GB)?
Answer: They don't. They're using the same size chip, it's that ssds lose a fraction of a percent of their space every write cycle, and different manufacturers reserve a certain amount of space in the drive to make up for those losses, so your total value doesn't change over time, and so if you fill up the drive completely, there's still room to fit data as its storage gets destroyed, rather than your file getting corrupted, as would happen if it didn't have hidden room to fit it.

For example, two companies might be using the same say, 600 GB chip in their ssds, but one rates theirs at 500 GB while the other at 480 - the one with its storage rated at 480 is going to survive 20% more read/write cycles, as it has 120 GBS reserved to burn, whole the 500 GB one only has 100
.

Question: If the president was of another religion, would they take oath over the book of their faith. (For example, if the president was Jewish, would they take oath over the Torah)?
Answer: The president has a choice of what they want to be sworn in on. The book doesn't even have to be a religious text. Some presidents were sworn in on copies of the constitution.

Question: Why do people blame Republicans' success in Congressional races on district gerrymandering? Can't Democrats redistrict just the same?
Answer: They can and do. Illinois' 4th and Florida's 5th are prime examples of the dems gerrymandering. Unfortunately the only way our government tries to fix gerrymandering is with more gerrymandering. 

Edit: got my districts mixed up

Question: How does Nat Geo get so much great footage of rare, small, and dangerous animals?
Answer: They have the means to to put professional photographers "in the field" for long stretches at a time.

Question: Why aren't all currencies worth the same?
Answer: There's a fuck ton more yen (Japanese currency) than US dollars.

Supply and demand determines value. Higher supply means lower value. There's a much larger supply of yen than dollars while the demand for the two is roughly equal compared to the disparity in supply. So the value of the yen is lower. Much lower.

If you took dollars to Japan and found someone who would let you buy a car in US dollars, you would only need $20K (maybe + a fee for letting you pay in dollars which is inconvenient for the seller).

Question: How is the porn industry still a multi-billion dollar industry, when in the internet age you can just stream it for free?
Answer: Ever noticed all of those ads on porn sites? Ads are what pay the bills.

This is how lots of media makes its money.

Question: how do graffiti artists reach those seemingly impossible difficult spots, like the tops of high buildings or inside overpasses?
Answer: How to reach the ceiling? A ladder.
How to reach the top of a high wall? A bigger ladder.
How to reach a really really high wall? A bigger bigger ladder!

Question: How the NFL Draft works.
Answer: 1. Any player who enters the draft is eligible to be picked, but if you enter the draft you forfeit your remaining college eligibility.  Usually every senior who has graduated enters the draft since they're out of eligibility anyway.  Also select underclassmen enter as well and forfeit eligibility.  This is usually if they expect to be picked high.  
The NFL does restrict you from entering the draft if you graduated high school less than 3 years earlier.  So freshman as well as true (non-redshirt) sophomores are ineligible.  

2.  It's the reverse order of finish.  Among the non-playoff teams, the team with the worst record during the previous season picks first, the second worst team picks second and so on.  Once all non-playoff teams have picked, all playoff teams are ordered by how far they made it with the Super Bowl champ picking last.  
Each round runs in the same basic order, so the 2nd round starts with the worst team again.  This gives the worse teams a draft advantage.  

3.  Trade.  Picks are traded very often.  You often hear the terms "trade up" or "trade down/back".  Trading up is trading multiple later picks and/or players to get a higher pick.  Trading back is exactly the opposite.  Teams often trade up when they have few needs and would rather get a stud player at one position, or they fall in love with one particular player.  This is often done for quarterbacks.  Teams trade back when they have multiple needs and would rather get multiple, lower-ranked players.  
You can also trade picks from future years.  For example the St. Louis Rams own the #2 pick this year as a result of a trade with the Washington Redskins that occured 2 years ago.

4.  A stud QB generally.  But if you have a stud QB already you want something different.  Teams take several different strategies.  Some teams take the best player on the board regardless of position.  Some teams draft their weakest positions regardless of if the player is the best one (this is a good time to trade back!  If you want a particular player but don't think anyone else would take him for awhile you try to trade back, get more picks, and get the same player!).  

5. Yes.  They can't sign with a different team and end up re-entering the draft next year.  This very rarely happens.

Question: Why do rainbows form on spilt oil on the ground?
Answer: It's actually not the oil itself but the oil and water. The uneven mixture creates a prism which reflects the light rays at differing angles.

Question: "The higher the probability, the higher the entropy and the lower the information content."
Answer: >   After all, it had been Wiener who discovered a precise mathematical definition of information: The higher the probability, the higher the entropy and the lower the information content.

Er, I think it was Boltzmann who came up with the definition and it was really Claude Shannon who popularized the concept.

No matter.

"Information entropy" is exactly the same as or has absolutely nothing to do with the concept of entropy used in physics depending on who you talk to. According to Shannon, the information of a message is a measure of its probability of occurrence. It has nothing to do with "meaning." A message you can predict in advance (probability = 1) contains zero information. If I already know what you're going to say, there's no point in you saying it  (see: right-wing talk show hosts, left-wing talk show hosts, my mom). 

Hence, "the higher the probability the higher the entropy and the lower the information content."

Question: Why is Golf the go to sports for rich and/or powerful people like Presidents, CEOs? What is special about it?
Answer: It costs a lot of money to play, it's played in a space that is exclusive, which allows for privacy, and it is a slow paced game that allows for conversation and socializing. The slower pace also allows people to play into much older age than other sports. It's basically the perfect game for wealthy people who want to have something to do while having an informal conversation.

Question: how does China go from an "overheated" economic perpetual powerhouse to an economic crisis seemingly in less than a year?
Answer: When the stock market has more investment in it than is justified by it's actual value, we call it a 'bubble'. The price of stocks is way too high, and people are profiting on it's rise, but eventually that bubble bursts.

Real growth happens in the 3%-5% range per year. Generally, growth past that is a bubble that will eventually pop.

Question: Falling through the earth
Answer: Seriously?
_URL_2_

_URL_5_

_URL_1_

_URL_0_

_URL_3_

_URL_4_

You couldn't be bothered by a search?

Question: Why is there darkness?
Answer: Light doesn't travel instantaneously. The universe is only ~14 billion years old so there's only a limited amount of stars we can see.

Additionally, the universe is expanding. As the space itself inflates the light starts to shift towards the red end of the spectrum, eventually dipping into the infrared portion which is invisible to the naked eye.

Question: What are the historical/social reasons that cause Americans to tend to define their political affiliations as a fixed variable?
Answer: In the United States, the Democratic party has for decades been the party of coastal areas and big cities, where the Republicans have been the party of rural areas and non-coastal areas.

Regional affiliation rules the parties, rather than ideology, and whatever is popular in a region becomes the party platform. Party affiliation is usually based on the culture you find yourself in. The actual principles that the parties believe in change from election to election based on what these regions desire.

For example, Ronald Reagan is a Republican hero even though he created most of the national debt, because at the time the debt wasn't an issue that rural Americans cared about. Once hard times hit and they started caring about that, then balancing the budget became a conservative issue.

Question: How is Kevin McCarthy a good choice for Speaker of the House?
Answer: It makes sense because the Republican party is overrun with lunatics at the moment.  Boehner was run out of town for not being enough of a hardliner.  Whoever replaces him doesn't need to be experienced, articulate, or anything you might think of as useful in a politician.  As long as he agrees that Obama is Satan any that any sort of compromise with him is absolutely unacceptable then he is the man for the job.

Question: As a public figure, why can't Donald Trump's tax returns be released for him without his permission?
Answer: Because even public figures are allowed a certain level of privacy. 

While I would not support the release of someone's information by coercion I **would** support a requirement that candidates must fully disclose their finances voluntarily in order to be allowed on the ballot.

Question: Where does the "smack" come from when sending a kiss?
Answer: When you pucker up to kiss, you create a vacuum. When any opening is created i.e. any gap between your lips and teeth, air rushes in and creates a sharp whistle, which is the smack we hear.

Question: If your intestines don't have pain receptors, why does having constipation or diarrhea hurt so much?
Answer: The intestines do have nerves, just not the normal pain receptors you are familiar with on your fingers and the like. Instead their receptors are more sensitive to pressure and stretching. Feeling the texture of your poop isn't really necessary.

Question: Why are HTML, CSS, and JavaScript all separate languages?
Answer: First of all HTML and CSS are not programming languages. If you want to be able to do any programming within a browser's web page you need javascript. This includes everything where you want to say IF this, then do that. HTML is the way you format your page. For instance  < b > Some text < /b >  make 'some text' in a bold font. CSS is a way of uniformly applying styles to a web page or site. It could for instance change the behavior of that bold tag to always be in a large font.

Question: How big does a planet have to be for it to seem flat at ground level?
Answer: That entirely depends on how big of an area you want to seem flat. Also what you mean by "seem". The Earth seems pretty flat from ground level, to be honest, unless you're actually measuring something.

Question: What is happening in the Missouri safe space video, from a legal standpoint. Specifically with the first and second reporters.
Answer: If I can tag along here, what would the repercussions be if people began to use drones to film the "safe zone?" I know there is some kind of "drone code of ethics" but I'm curious about the legality...

Edit: It appears they are now handing out a PSA welcoming media: _URL_0_

Question: alternation of generations
Answer: In most animals, all the generations look the same - diploid animals with haploid germ cells. In many plants, the generations alternate between diploid organisms and haploid organisms. Organisms in both generations are able to survive, they just look different and occupy different niches.

Question: In the digital age, how will photographs be handed down to future generations?
Answer: My descendents can fb me if they really care to see..

Question: What is a Roth IRA? Why is it considered such a sound investment?
Answer: In a normal retirement plan, like a company sponsored 401k, taxes are deferred until you actually withdraw money in retirement. With a Roth IRA, you pay taxes up front, but can withdraw the money tax free. This makes sense if the taxes you pay now will be lower than when you retire. This will tend to be more true earlier in your career.

Question: Why is female circumcision done by Muslims considered mutilation, but male circumcision commonly done in America completely fine?
Answer: There are several forms of female genital mutilation. 

The more serious forms of it are like cutting your dick off, and then making it so that the stub will hurt if someone tries to fuck you. 

There are also more minor forms which are comparable to male circumcision though many of them make the very sensitive clitoris painful. 

It's about sexual purity/repression, and more a m middle eastern backcountry hick thing than an Islamic thing.

Question: Why does it always seem like the world is falling apart?
Answer: Information isn't just at your fingertips, it's being shotgun blasted into your retinas. 

Your attention span is a hot commodity, so everyone with something to say is going to radicalize it so you take notice. 

We live in the most peaceful time in history, we have more control over diseases and better healthcare than mankind has ever known. 

Don't worry, don't believe the hype. Go on and enjoy your life. 

If need be, stay off social media and go out of your way to avoid the news for a few days... You'll feel better.

Question: how "wasting water" is even possible?
Answer: There are a couple of points that make it important.

* Droughts aren't the only issue.  Many cities (e.g. Phoenix, Las Vegas) are located in areas where water is and always will be locally scarce.

* The water cycle replenishes a relatively fixed quantity of water.  For cities that draw their water from rivers, reservoirs, or groundwater, it is very possible that they draw more water per year than is replenished naturally.  This makes long term water scarcity likely.

* Not all water is sufficiently treated, making it more problematic to dump water back into nature.  In some places, sewage is pumped raw or almost-raw into waterways, which surely should be minimized (though wasting 'clean' water wouldn't impact this, overusing things like soap could).

Question: Why Communism failed
Answer: Communism started as an academic exercise and some sound analysis went in to it, but it fundamentally goes against human nature. Given half a chance, people will try to bargain, make deals, and try to better their conditions even at the expense of others. To make Communism work, people would have to deny themselves in favour of the group, and people just don't do that. 

The answer below talks about "governments incorrectly trying to implement a bastardized version of communism". If Communism made sense, it would not require governments to implement it at all. Any economic system that has to be imposed by a government is doomed to failure.

Question: Why do veterans in the USA have a seperate hospital/healthcare system?
Answer: It was seen as an obligation that the citizens would pay for the healthcare of soldiers who were injured in the service of the country.

Question: Does having a random alpha+numeric+symbol password reduce exposure in compromised email data breaches?
Answer: >   I assume the hackers gained access to the salted hash password file.

This is the best case. If hackers breached the site's security to get the password, we have already established that the site does have its security flaws. Whether or not they salted, or even hashed your password (or if they just stored it in plain-text) is uncertain.

 >  does having a random string strong password reduce exposure of brute forcing via rainbow?

Depending on your meaning of strong. If you mean a variety of characters, intended to thwart dictionary attacks and the like, then no, that will have no effect on a rainbow table. If you mean the length of the password itself, then yes, that could help. If the rainbow table was designed for passwords of lengths shorter than your own, then they won't be able to find your password in the 'table'. Also, if the website did salt your password, then this will render their rainbow tables completely useless even if your password was something simple like "pa$$word". Rainbow tables are effectively compact, but slightly slower lookup tables computed of the 'standard', non-salted hash function. However, I should address that having a stronger password will help thwart regular brute force attacks (just trying every single password to see if its hash matches) and definitely helps against dictionary attacks (trying passwords composed of typical English words + a few added symbols / digits, and often l33t t3xt).

 >  does a password that's 10 character random gen password like "jD02j-#2Ao" make it less likely to be flagged as a positive password match as opposed to what has been toughted as more secure "1quickbrownfoxjumpsover1lazydog"

Usually yes. Enough added characters in the longpasswordofjoinedwords will make it harder to crack than a more complex shorter one, but only for enough characters. Looking at it in a simplified case, lets say we want to calculate how many passwords there are of each type (with specific length and character set). If you have a password 12 characters long but all lowercase, that would be 26^12 = 9.5e16 possible passwords since there are 26 possible characters and we choose 12 (possibly duplicates, otherwise we'd have 26! / (26-12)!  ).  For the complex password, lets say its 6 characters long, but can be uppercase, lowercase, digits, and any of 8 specific symbols (!@#$%^ & *). That means we have (26+26+10+8)^6 = 1.2e11 possible passwords. However, the actual number of possible 16-lowercase-letter 'passphrases' (as they call them) would be lower, since not ever combination of letters makes a word. So a hacker may just pull words from an English dictionary, and try combinations of those instead. There's about 9k 5-letter (commonly used) words in the English language, and 18k 6-letter words. It'd take about 3 of these words to produce a 16-letter passphrase, so if we just computed all pairs of 3 as an upper bound, we'd have (9,000+18,000)^3 = 2e13, which is 3 orders of magnitude lower than our previous estimate. Of course this is a very rough estimate, and of course has its flaws, but I think you see the point I'm making.


Anyways, in regards to your breached accounts-  as always its a good idea to change your passwords on everything that used that same password, its even a good idea to have a different password for each website/app. Passphrases (as shown in my example) are stronger than complex passwords, and are easier to remember. If you do this, your main concern should then be what other personal info got leaked. Any phone numbers, full names, birth dates, that stuff. Getting your email address leaked can be a pain since you'll likely get lots of ads (due to them selling it to advertisers), but isn't as bad as potential identity theft. If any important info like that got leaked, definitely ask around (right away) and figure out how to handle that. I have no clue where to start on something like that, but I'm sure you could find someone who knows.

Question: standard deviations.
Answer: There's a lot of great answers involving square roots and variance, but I think the simplest explanation is that it tells you how tightly grouped your data is.

For example, if I have five numbers:  8, 9, 10, 11 and 12:

* The average is 10.

Another five numbers:  2, 6, 10, 14, 18:

* The average again is 10.

However, these clearly aren't the same.  The numbers are grouped much more closely around the average in the first example.  As a result, the standard deviation will be smaller in the first example and larger in the second.  The standard deviation honestly probably isn't very useful in such a small sample, but with a larger data set numbers, it can help provide good info how tightly grouped the numbers are.

Another cool thing about standard deviations is that you can use them to quickly determine how many of your data points fall within a certain range.  By definition, 68.2% of your data falls within +/- one standard deviation of the average.  So, if I told you that a certain data set had an average of 100 and a standard deviation of 5, you'd know right away that approximately 2/3 of the data points are between 95 and 105.

Edit: as /u/MartiniD mentioned, yes the last paragraph only applies if the data set is bell-shaped.  I thought about mentioning that in my original comment, but didn't because I was trying to keep it simple.

Question: Why is glass the most chemically stable thing... ever?
Answer: OP IS TALKING ABOUT HOW BEAKERS, TEST TUBES, AND MOST OTHER LAB EQUIPMENT IS MADE OF GLASS, NEVER REACTING WITH THE SUBSTANCES CHEMICALLY CHANGING WITHIN IT.

Question: With so many ways to listen to an artists music for cheap or even free, how do musicians make any money?
Answer: Their main income is from touring and live performances.

Also, merchandise such as clothing (concert tees and such)

Many pop artists have secondary incomes like clothing lines (J. Lo) and perfumes (Brittney Spears), even dolls (Taylor Swift).

They do still sell albums via iTunes and physical CDs. They also get royalties when their music is played in streaming services and on the radio.

They *can* sell the rights or grant permission for their music to be used in movies, commercials, TV shows, etc.

**Most importantly; if you like a band, go see them live! This really is the highest level of support you can give them. Plus, concerts are awesome. No one has ever died saying that regretted going to so many concerts!**

Question: Plutonium (Nuclear?) Power, specifically in the Curiosity rover
Answer: >  I've been searching for an answer in earlier ELI5 posts, and nuclear power seems to be harnessing the energy to heat water and spin a turbine. Is this how Curiosity's reactor works?

The reactor on Curiosity converts a heat differential directly into electricity. As the radioisotope decays, it generates heat, which makes the inner chamber warmer than the outside chamber. This temperature differential is used to generate electricity directly, without the use of water and turbines. The phenomenon is called the [Seebeck effect](_URL_0_), although it is way beyond an ELI5 level.

 >  How can such a small system produce so much power?

It doesn't produce that much power - only about 110 W. The generator is used to slowly charge the battery, so when it's time to use a power-intensive instrument, there is an excess of charge available.

Keep in mind that when it says "more than a million watts of power in five-billionth-of-a-second burst," that is a _really really short burst_. Power is a term used to describe energy over some time, and you can obtain a very high _power_ by shortening the duration to a very small number, even if you keep energy constant.

To put it in perspective, a million watts of power over five nanoseconds only has 0.005 Joules of energy. It takes the 110 W power supply 45 milliseconds to provide the equivalent amount of energy.

Question: Why is pipe tobacco wet but cigarette (rollie) tobacco dry?
Answer: Def not interchangeable. I believe it is because generally pipe smokers want to puff on there pipe for awhile. If it was dry like cigarette tobacco it would burn up in a few puffs. The moist pipe tobacco burns and stays lit for a little while.

Question: What is FM synthesis and what are the difference between FM, Subtractive, and Additive synthesis?
Answer: FM stands for "frequency modulation." In general it refers to any sort of time that we're changing the frequency of a signal. FM radio, for example, sends a signal by modulating (changing) the carrier frequency very slightly. When you tune into a radio station, the channel number is the carrier frequency at which they broadcast. The channel 100.7 WZLX Boston broadcasts at 100.7 MHz, which is a frequency. They send information by changing the carrier frequency ever so slightly: your receiver notices the slight changes and interprets that as a signal.

FM synthesis is when you make an entirely new sound by taking some original sound and modifying its frequency. A great example is a device called an "octaver," which is used by many guitarists. What the octaver does is copy the note the guitarist is playing, and then spit it out an octave higher. The first few notes of [Purple Haze](_URL_2_) is one of the earliest examples of octaver usage. You can hear how the note is sort of "doubled" both low and high: that's the octaver. A more modern example of an octaver - which is much more sophisticated than the one Hendrix was using - comes from [Cemetery Gates](_URL_0_) by Pantera. It basically SCREAMS the higher notes in that one, it's pretty easy to tell when he's turning it on and off. [Here](_URL_1_) is another example where the lead guitarist pretty much leaves the octaver on, which might be easier to hear.

The point here is that the way that an octaver works is to double the frequency of the original sound. That's FM synthesis: we're taking a sound and changing its frequency to get a new sound. It isn't just octavers: we can also make harmonizers, which do stuff like [this](_URL_3_): that's one guitar, even though it sounds like three. The harmonizer is a machine which is doing FM synthesis on his input, which allows him to sound like three guitarists playing in harmony. The frequency modulation on his input changes the note, which lets him play "with himself." It sounds like there's a bit of delay and chorus on it too (maybe some flange?), but those are other effects which are only partially related (technically chorus is FM synth too).

So far this is all *harmonic* FM synthesis. Essentially, we're doing FM synthesis which makes things fit together well musically. In general "harmonic" FM synthesis is when the output frequency is multiple of the input frequency. In the octaver, the output frequency was doubled (multiple of 2): in the harmonizer it's going to be some other multiple depending on what type of harmony we want. In the harmonizer example I gave you he's using 5x and 27x the input frequency, and then octaving them back down. If you're a musician, when he plays a C the harmonizer will put out an E and A as well (it's a weird chord).

In general we needn't use harmonic FM synthesis: there's no reason why I can't make a synth which multiples the input signal by π or *e* or 1.2043652046 or whatever the hell I want. It'll sound like shit in musical applications, but in general signal processing it'll be useful.

Additive and subtractive gets really complicated. I can go into it, but it's one of those questions where I have to check if you know calculus or not first: otherwise it makes no sense and you probably shouldn't care. It's not "additive" or "subtractive" in the way you would think, it has to do with integral transforms and abstract vector spaces and shit.

Question: Why is patient zero of such significance?
Answer: Viruses mutate as they travel to different hosts, so the first patient to get it has the most basic form of it that has the most in common with the daughter strains, which may evolve in completely different directions.  Thus, if you find a cure based on the original patient, is has the highest likelihood of working on the daughter cases.

Question: How does the aurora borealis form and why it is so hard to predict this phenomenon?
Answer: when the sun releases a stream of high energy particles from its surface, if it travels in the direction of earth it will strike the earth's atmospheric particles. then these particle's electrons will absorb the energy from the suns particles, they jump from their normal energy state to a higher energy state for sometime and slowly loose their energy and fall back to its original energy state, it is the part when they start loosing energy they emit photons of certain wavelength that creates the aurora borealis.
This happens especially on the poles of the earth because of our magnetic field, our magnetic field shields us from the suns high energy particles, these are the harmful rays. These rays are diverted from the center of the earth to the poles and away from us, when the rays enter the poles they interact with the particles
and this phenomenon happens as i explained above

to predict this phenomenon we should monitor and we should be able to predict the suns activity when it expels solar flares along with a high speed solar wind. So right now i guess we cant predict the sun's activity yet

Question: Why do some substances melt, leaving behind the same substance, and some burn up, leaving ashes?
Answer: Well melting and burning are two different processes.  Say you have an ice cube.  It's made up of a bunch of water molecules which are made up of hydrogen and oxygen.

If we melt the cube, we are just turning the hard rigid structure of ice, into a loose pool of water molecules.  We're just adding enough energy so that the water molecules don't want to stick to each other.

Burning is much more destructive.  If we have the same ice cube and burn it, then we are ripping apart the hydrogen and oxygen atoms in the water molecules and turning them into 2 individual gases.  This fundamentally changes what you have.  Your products are not the same as the ice cube.

Question: If all US currency states "Legal tender for ALL debts public or private" on it, can businesses legslly refuse to accept $100 bills?
Answer: > There is.... no Federal statute mandating that a private business, a person or an organization must accept currency or coins as for payment for goods and/or services.

_URL_0_

Question: Why Do Styrofoam Leach Out Their Contents When It's Super Cold
Answer: It's not just when it's cold. Styrofoam is a bunch of little pellets squished together, the seal between pellets isn't perfect and will very slowly leak

Question: Why do hard criminals (like murderers) become super religious during jailtime?
Answer: * joining up with others, regardless of the reason for affiliation, offers protection and community
* prison life sucks, and placing your hopes and energies in something beyond that can be a coping mechanism
* a lot of people are in prison because they shameless exploit and manipulate others...religion is an effective tool for doing this
* a lot of people are in prison because they feel they were special and the law doesn't apply to them...religion lets you construct a narrative where your are special and have been chosen to fulfill a divine plan
* people tend to be more sympathetic and deferential to those who share their religion, including prison guards and parole boards
* some prisons actively push religious activities, and give privileges to those who participate

Question: Free birth control under Obama's plan, how does it work and how do I know if I qualify?
Answer: Apparently it's considered "preventative care" now... I'm not sure if it applies to existing plans though.

 > The guidelines go into effect on Monday, requiring insurers to provide free coverage of preventive care services for women in all new plans beginning in August 2012.

[Source](_URL_0_)

Question: Why does our brain tend to remember the bad things that happend to us more often and intense than the good stuff?
Answer: Probably because in history, remembering bad events would help you to avoid them in the future and aid your survival. E.g. if you were attacked by a bear near a cave and lived, you would remember not to go near that cave again.

Question: how can a spacecraft calculate its speed in space?
Answer: The answer is, it depends on your reference point. Speed, unlike acceleration, is relative. You can only know the speed of an object when you compare it something. On earth, we measure the speed of an object based on the surface of the earth, or stationary objects. In space, any object you point to is moving at a phenomenal speed, but depending on your frame of reference, only certain ones will appear to be moving, or will appear to be moving at totally different speeds. 

That's the cookie cutter response you'll see here regarding your question, and while it's correct it doesn't really answer you properly. 

You are asking "if a spacecraft, launched from earth and moving to another star, wants to determine it's speed, how would it do so?"

first, depending on it's distance from earth, it could send a signal out and measure the time it took coming back. That would do it. 

Measuring the your speed compared to another stellar body wouldn't work, unless you already knew the speed of that stellar body when compared to earth. 

Another, sneaky method that would work even if you had no reference point, is to simply calculate your speed from the rate of acceleration your ship has. In your question, you talk about a solar sail propelled ship. A ship like that would have largely uniform acceleration, and most changes in acceleration could be accounted for. If you have an acceleration of 1 m/s^2 (or one metre per second increase, every second passed). Using the rate of acceleration, which you know, you can calculate the speed you are currently going.

Question: If a suppressor doesn't actually silence the sound of a gun that much, what role does it serve?
Answer: It reduces the sound enough that it won't damage your hearing which also makes it so that the report of the weapon isn't heard a mile away

*Edit: Integrated silencers actually do silence the weapon. Like the MP5SD. The bolt clicking is louder than the shot

Question: Why fish can  pull oxygen from the water yet not from the air.
Answer: Fish pull oxygen out of the water using a body part called a *gill*. They have gills on either side of their heads (kind of where our ears are). Gills are made of lots and lots of little thin fins. That way they have lots and lots of surface that touches the water passing by, so there are lots of opportunities for some oxygen passing by to dissolve into them.

If you've ever seen someone with long hair underwater, you've seen how their hair kind of floats all around their heads, right? What happens when they come out of the pool? Their hair falls flat onto their heads and kind of all sticks together because it's wet.

That's exactly what happens to a fish's gills when you take a fish out of the water. All those little paper-thin fins collapse together and stick together because they're wet and have no water to float in. There isn't enough area left on the surface for them to get the oxygen they need, so they suffocate.

Question: Why do cars need transmissions but planes and boats don't?
Answer: Engines have a relatively narrow range of RPM where they perform efficiently.

Planes and boats propel themselves in a viscous atmosphere/fluid.  As a result, plane and boat engines can operate in a fairly narrow range of RPM and still be effective.  Within that narrow RPM range, the propeller/fan generates sufficient thrust into the viscous atmosphere/fluid to propel the aircraft/boat forward.

On the other hand, car engines are "rigidly" connected to the ground via ground- > tires- > wheels- > driveshaft- > transmission- > clutch- > engine.  This means that without a transmission, a car's engine would have to operate on a much wider range of RPM's - including RPM's where the engine performs poorly or not at all.  A transmission allows the car engine to remain in its efficient RPM range while the car can travel from a crawl to over 100mph.

Question: Why were buildings such as schools made into fallout shelters?
Answer: Schools are large buildings, typically in the middle of population centers that typically have facilities built for large group of people (bathrooms, kitchens, etc.).

They make natural rally points for a population center and are built reasonably well to handle a crowd.

Question: Why didn't the FCC allow television broadcasters to use the AM band, instead of FM/VHF/UHF?
Answer: The AM Band extends from  535- to 1,705-kHz, which takes up a little more than 1.1 Mhz.  Each of the original TV channels used 6 Mhz.  Thus, the entire AM band was incapable of handling even 1 single TV signal.

Question: Why are many bathroom sink faucets so close to the back of the sink?
Answer: Depends on the design, but I think it's at least partly because of how older bathrooms did their bathroom sinks. Basically the sink was a bowl, and you filled it up with water from the faucet, hot water would be a separate faucet, and you would add that in to get the right temperature. Then you wash your hands in the sink, and pull the drain to empty it. The faucets were thus small so they don't get in the way of your hands. I know in the UK, many people still have this style of sink in the bathroom, [they look like this](_URL_0_).

In the US at least, we have gone away from that style of sink, and just wash our hands under the tap. But we still use faucets that look similar, probably for aesthetics reasons (putting a large kitchen sink style faucet would look odd), and partly because we still do wash things in the sink other than our hands, it may be useful to have a small faucet.

And finally, if you're hitting your hands on the sink, it's probably because they installed the wrong faucet. On many sinks, the holes for the faucet are pre-drilled, their location is meant for a faucet of a specific size (one that stretches some distance from the edge), sometimes people buy sinks with the holes set back and couple it with a faucet that is short meant for holes set forward resulting in a faucet that's too close to the edge. Sometimes the holes are not pre-drilled and the installer drills them too far back. Spout reach is a spec listed for the faucet on home depot, people forget to check it when picking parts sometimes.

Question: If Oseltamivir also helps prevent the flu, then why isn't it not prescribed as such?
Answer: > Couldn't one make the argument that if everyone in you household has a flu, then getting prescribed Oseltamivir should be the way to go?

If everyone in your household has the flu, then Oseltamivir isn't going to help all that much.  From the article you linked:

 > "On average patients who start taking Tamiflu within 48 hours of getting sick will recover one day faster than patients who do not take anything"

So you're looking at just one day of reduced symptoms, at the cost of risking many of the pretty terrible side effects of Oseltamivir, if you give it to people who already have the flu.

The only time it might make sense is if everyone in your household has been vaccinated, and *one* of your has the flu anyway (idicating that the vaccine might not have been effective against the strain in your household).  In that case, it *might* be worth it to reduce the spread to other family members.

Question: How come at night when I change the angle of my rearview mirror it receives less light?
Answer: [Really old picture](_URL_0_), but it explains it nicely.

Question: Mathematically, why can't a chair balance with 2 legs?
Answer: To see if something will balance, lay a string on the ground around its feet and tighten it.  (That's called the "convex hull" of the feet.)  The center of mass must be above the area outlined by the string for it to balance.

Of course when you tighten a string around two feet, it becomes a line with no area, which leaves a super tiny area that the center of mass must be in for it to balance.

Question: Why do we tip bartenders but not fast food workers for doing essentially the same task?
Answer: Bartenders pour drinks and can give you extra booze and not kick you out when you start getting drunk.  The good ones will conversation with you at show times.

Question: Why has the federal government of South Korea (including the president and PM) taken so much heat over the ferry sinking?
Answer: Korean culture is huge on taking responsibility. The more power you have the more you profusely apologize for any and all mistakes. For example, when Cho Seung Hui massacred those kids at VTech, the Korean government and many korean religious leaders all apologized on behalf of the Korean population. It's a cultural thing where anyone associated with a tragedy must take blame for it, without hesitation and with humility.

Question: Why do headphones sound better when you press on them?
Answer: you get a better seal around your ear, making more sound go directly in the ear rather than floating off

Question: How and why does the human body generates heat?
Answer: When we burn calories, we actually burn (oxidize) calories.  The oxygen we breathe in is used for cells to take the food we eat and turn it into energy.  The leftovers are heat, carbon dioxide (which we then breathe out), and a bit of water.

Question: How come animals today aren't as big as the dinosaurs were?
Answer: Keep in mind a few facts:

The biggest animal that ever lived is alive today. Bigger than any dinosaur, bigger than megalodon, bigger than all the ones you never heard of. Biggest animal ever is the blue whale.

Two, huge prehistoric animals like giant sauropods, megalodon, those kite-sized dragonflies, all existed at different times and were big for different reasons. It's not a case of "prehistoric = bigger". There were lots of small dinosaurs too.

Dinosaurs were adapted to grow extremely fast. Sauropods could grow 6 tons *a year*, based on estimates of age  &  weight.

Question: How in the hell did Arnold Schwarzenegger become the governor of California?
Answer: Everyone was pissed off at the guy before him. My car registration became like $1000! I mean wtf, what do they do for me to charge me $1000?? He promised to fix it and he did.

Question: How did they print photos in old newspapers?
Answer: How old were the newspapers? The first newspapers used reusable type for the letters. To print a picture engraving were made. No there was no shading possible at first. Then engravings using multiple small lines were made to produce shadows.

As printing advanced the ability to print smaller and smaller lines, then dots, developed. Enough fine dots and you can print pixels.

Question: What is causing the troubles in Calais/The Channel Tunnel?
Answer: Migrants have been building up over the years, many of the asylum seekers are from Syria and other middle eastern countries affected by the voilence. Since the Strikes happened there was alot less staff causing a build up in queues bringing lorries to a stand still. This provides the perfect opportunity to get onto them. It's harder when the lorries are moving. More are trying to cross at this time since it's the best chance they will get thanks to the strikes

Question: the different denominations in Christianity and whats the difference between them
Answer: One of the early forms of Christianity that I know is "Arianism" (don't confuse it with Aryan, the fantasy race of the Nazis). The idea is that the Son, Jesus Christ, is inferior to the Father because the later created the former. And the Holy Spirit is inferior to the Son because Jesus created the Holy Spirit. The Roman Church believes that the Holy Trinity; the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are one and the same AND equal. Arianism is very different to mainstream Christianity due to the Trinity issue and were branded as heretics.

The Roman Church then decided to be governed by a Pentarchy (meaning Rule of Five). The Roman emperor would be the Vice-Gerent of Christ, the head of the church, and five patriarchates would co-rule the entire Christianity and these were; Patriarch of Rome, Constantinople, Antioch, Jerusalem and Alexandria. Later on, the Roman Empire split itself into two. Since Christianity is the state religion of the empire, the religion divided itself too. The Western half would be known as the Roman Catholic Church and the Eastern half would be the Eastern Orthodox Church. The Patriarch of Rome proclaimed himself as the sole head of Christianity, which known as the Pope. The East still believes in the old idea. 

The Protestant religion would later rise up on the Reformation. The Protestants differ from the Catholics to many things such as rejection of religious icons, the bible to be translate into any language not just Latin, rejection of the Pope as the head of the church.

Another break-away sect is Calvinism or Reformed but I don't know much about it. Sorry. Another one is Anglicanism (English Church) which is basically a Catholic Church by practice but nationalised. The English king acts as the head of the Church replacing the Pope. The English church later on starts to adopt Protestant ideas.

There are more less known sects like the Nestorian church which spans from the Middle East to China but where were cut off from mainstream Christianity due to geo-political reasons. Lastly, Coptic Orthodox Church. It's still disputed what makes them different to Eastern Orthodox or Catholicism.

Question: What makes computer code inefficient or elegant?
Answer: Basically, it's a measurement of what a program is able to do contrasted by how much space the program takes up. Here is an extremely simplified example:

2 + 2 + 2 + 2  + 2 + 2 + 2 + 2  = 20

or

2 x 2 x 2 x 2 = 16

or 

2 ^4 = 16

All of these equations equal 16, but each successive version of the equation takes up less space.

Question: Why is there an age requirement (35) to be President of the United States?
Answer: There are a number of reasons.  

First, the framers of the constitution believed that wisdom comes from experience and they must have believed that 35 was a sufficient age for a person to gain enough experience.

Second, they didn't want people to be elected merely because, say, their father was a good politician.  They were trying to get away from a monarchy and if a son was elected merely because his father was a good politician, that seemed a little too close to monarchy.

Third, and possibly the most important, in [Federalist #64](_URL_0_) John Jay writes:

 >  By excluding men under thirty-five from the first office, and those under thirty from the second, it confines the electors to men of whom the people have had time to form a judgment, and with respect to whom they will not be liable to be deceived by those brilliant appearances of genius and patriotism, which, like transient meteors, sometimes mislead as well as dazzle. If the observation be well founded, that wise kings will always be served by able ministers, it is fair to argue, that as an assembly of select electors possess, in a greater degree than kings, the means of extensive and accurate information relative to men and characters, so will their appointments bear at least equal marks of discretion and discernment. The inference which naturally results from these considerations is this, that the President and senators so chosen will always be of the number of those who best understand our national interests, whether considered in relation to the several States or to foreign nations, who are best able to promote those interests, and whose reputation for integrity inspires and merits confidence. With such men the power of making treaties may be safely lodged.

In other words, by making people wait until they are 35, it gives the voters a chance to make a judgement as to how the candidate performs.  It allows the voters to pick a wise candidate based on what the candidate has done in the past.  If some flashy 21 year old ran for president and he or she just happened to be more eloquent than other candidates, voters would only have appearances, not substance, to base their vote on.

Question: Why is that when an escalator is turned off and you walk on it you feel like you're losing balance?
Answer: Balance is one of our senses, and our senses are acclimated to our environment, so that the brain can simply tune out some of the inputs.

Some hard-wired examples would be that you can't usually hear your own blood pumping through your body or that you don't see the little veins in your eyes (there's actually spots you don't see but your brain fills them in, in some situations things in plain sight are hidden behind those.)

An addon is that your brain has learned to accept transportation and anticipate the forces that are applied to you, hence why you feel more inertia if you're just a passenger in a car instead of the driver.

It's similar for escalators but it's more of an always on switch. Whenever you're on an escalator, expect to be moved. If the escalator is turned off, your brain might understand the reasoning, the physics that are going on, but unless you're around escalators that are turned on and off a lot the association of a running and stopped escalator is broken. You moving on an escalator as you would on stairs confuses the brain.

Question: how exactly does water ruin electronics, assuming that they are turned off after and dried throughly, what damage to hardware is done that is irreparable?
Answer: Different components react differently to water. Most ICs, for example, will dry just fine, but may end up with residual water stuck underneath the chip, unable to dry. 

Capacitors can corrode from the inside out, and transistors do weird things when exposed to water, but immediate drying and cleansing with alcohol will usually prevent that. 

Now, the unfixable stuff.

LCD screens are toast in water if water gets between the digitizer and the glass. Also, rechargeable batteries often use alkali or alkaline elements (think lithium ion batteries, among others) that are highly reactive to water. If exposed, very VERY small amounts of water can get into the battery and destroy it, either slowly or immediately. 

Other than that, water with any kind of mineral content can short circuit boards and/or leave deposits that hinder the board's ability to function, and can even cause heat build up. Dropping a phone into distilled water, however, won't do much, except cause a physical mess inside the device. The components themselves would be fine for the most part (except the battery and screen.)

Question: What kind of relationship do lawyers actually have with their clients in terms of guilt?
Answer: My understanding... it isn't relevant if your client is innocent or guilty. A defense attorney's job is to make sure the prosecutor's job is being done correctly. 

A prosecutor wants a conviction. They need to prove "beyond a reasonable doubt" that the defendant is guilty. A defense attorney needs to make sure that we don't starting doing "close enough" in a courtroom. That is a slippery slope, and one that would destroy our legal system.

Question: How does Spotify use so little mobile data?
Answer: They use a piece of technology called a codec, shorter for encoder - decoder. You may be familiar with some like mp4 for video and mp3 for audio, or its AAC successor m4a. 

There are ways a codec can reduce bit rate, or how much bandwidth is consumed in transmission without losing any information. The most common way is akin to zip compression where the encoder looks for patterns in the bits of the data (repeated 1s and 0s) and transmits the pattern and how often it occurs rather than the bits themselves. It's easier to say "transmit 10 zeros" instead of sending the literal 100 zeros. Just like it's shorter for me to write "10, 0" instead of "0000000000." 

There are also perceptual tricks. The biggest one is called Dynamic Bit Allocation, or DBA. The idea is that if I send the same audio signal with 16 bits per chunk of audio instead of 24 bits, there will be more noise on the 16 bit signal. However humans can't hear the noise if it's covered up by the audio. So the codec can look at the audio signal and use less bits for loud sections and more bits for quiet sections to reduce data without decreasing perceived audio quality. DBA is a part of the mp3 standard and many codecs but the actual method for doing it can vary greatly. 

Finally there are more perceptual tricks. For example most people can't hear above a certain frequency like say, 17kHz. Codecs can filter out all that unnecessary information to reduce file size. They can get even more clever about it and say, there's no energy at this particular band, or there's a lot of energy below it so you won't be able to perceive it, so let's get rid of it. Like DBA this method is standard in many codecs but the implementation can vary greatly. Essentially it says, this information isn't important for human perception of this sound, so fuck it.

Question: How do shaving creams make shaving easier?
Answer: To save you a chemistry lesson with lots of long words, let’s break it down to four basic ingredients:

Stearic acid – one of the main ingredients in soap-making. This puppy attracts dirt and grease and cleans your skin.

Surfactants – or “surface-acting agents.” They attract water to your skin, making it moist.

Emulsifiers – hold the water on our skin, keeping it soft and pliable.

Glycerin – it keeps skin supple long enough for you to do your thing.

Question: Why do nipples go hard when they are hit?
Answer: It's easier for newborn to latch onto a stiff nipple than a flaccid soft one. It's theorized thats why they stiffen upon contact.

The other reason is cold. In the same way you get goosebumps on your arms in the cold because your body is trying to keep you warm with your "fur". The hair follicles around your nipples stiffen causing the "nipply weather effect" to occur

Question: Biologist and Doctors
Answer: Antibiotics generally start to take effect pretty quickly, but there's a lot of stuff that has to happen between "antibiotic starts working" and "you feel normal again." Basically, you've got to kill off the bacteria, then turn off your body's response to them. Both of those take time.

Let's say you're taking penicillin or amoxicillin (which for ELI5 are basically the same thing) for tonsillitis. The drug molecules have a specific structure called a beta-lactam ring, which screws up the process of making new bacterial cell walls. When the bacteria keep trying to make cell walls, they don't work right and the bacteria blow up. Beta-lactams are about the fastest way we have to kill bacteria in your body, but since bacteria take some time to make new cell walls, it's not instant. For common antibiotics at standard doses, it takes a few doses to really hit the bacteria hard enough. Some other antibiotics don't kill bacteria at all, but just stop them from growing, making them sitting ducks for your immune system.

The "itis" in "tonsillitis" means inflammation, which is your body's response to infection (and lots of other things.) It's a very complicated process involving blood vessels, cells, and a lot of different chemicals. Some parts of inflammation just fade away on their own, but other parts have to be turned off.

Question: Why do your palms get sweaty when you're nervous/scared?
Answer: Your palms get sweaty when you're nervous or scared because of a system called the sympathetic system, triggering the fight or flight response. Or in ELI5:

When you get scared, your body releases a chemical, which among other things, makes you sweat more in anticipation of the extra heat your body created while trying to get extra energy to fight or run away whatever made you scared. The reason you feel it in your palms more is probably because the palm has more nerve endings relative to other parts of your body.

In not ELI5:
Your adrenal glands release adrenaline, among other things, that increase the rate of gluconeogenesis (sugar production) so that you will have more energy to fight/flee. However, this process is exothermic (releases heat), and your body is anticipating intense and sudden exercise so your body prepares itself by sweating. You'll feel the sweat in your palms probably because of the increased number of peripheral nerves in your palms and fingertips relative to other body parts.

Question: How would a basic income system work, how would it be implemented, and how might it affect taxation, industries and the economy?
Answer: Basic income is the government giving a set income to everyone in the country. This is funded by taxes as any other government program.

You can still work and earn money on top of your basic income. And the more you earn the more taxed you are, so if you earn quite a bit you will payback your basic income through taxes.

Basic income also means the governments can remove other forms of welfare completely. You no longer need unemployment aid, food stamps, pensions and help for the poor. As everyone has an income.

Question: Do astronauts on the ISS just not fap?
Answer: Why would you think that? They're up their for awhile, if they're not having sex with eachother, masturbation seems like an obvious thing that would happen

Question: why is celery frequently served with chicken wings?
Answer: It acts as a vehicle for ranch or blue cheese to cool the mouth off without having to take more hot sauce to get the cooling relief.

Question: Why is it that electric charges in a magnetic field don't experience a force unless they are moving?
Answer: This is actually a scenario experiencing quantum/time relativity. 

In the magnetic field, if you take the field as an observer, the charged object you see moves through and has a flux in the field enough to produce a change in the system. Through the particles end, when the particle is the observer, instead the field is unpertrubed until that particle goes through and /behind/ the particle does the field get pertrubed. Its moving through the field super fucking fast.

When the time dilation syncs things up through the constant of causation (c), what is experienced is a total pertribution in the entire system, resulting in a changed up field dynamic. Its a combination of the field observing the particle, and changing properties with the act of adding a charged particle, along with things syncing up. This causes a constant flux state in the field, as if the yniverse is vonstantly trying to re-update the state of the field as charged particles fly through the field and change it.

PBS spacetime has a good explanation of this, and the old host (almost bald guy) explains the concept well.

Question: Why must Inflation happen in an economic system? Why can't we just ignore it and say that money is worth the same?
Answer: It's not a guarantee that inflation will happen, or that the inflation will be a good thing. You can have deflation where a dollar is gaining in value over time. This encourages people to save money instead of spending it, and you have less dollars flowing through your economy. You can also have hyperinflation where your currency spirals out of control, and ultimately gets replaced by bartering/foreign currency. A low inflation rate encourages spending/investing, because your money is losing value if you stuff it in a matress. More money flowing through the economy equals a better economy.

Question: Why is the cost of groceries still high when the price of gas has fallen back down?
Answer: What /u/Teekno said, water, is a huge part of it, and not limited to just California - reports were that last summer was so dry in the midwest that grains and corn were also going to have a much smaller crop this past fall, on top of the pork shortage, and this past winter [has killed over 30k dairy cattle,](_URL_0_) which will lead to milk/butter/cheese shortages as well. 

In short: Blame the weather : <  

But also, as they raise prices, folks get used to them, and even if the base costs went back down, that doesn't mean that manufacturers/grocers have to lower the prices back down, it just means that they can profit more.

Question: Why can routers only use 2.4Ghz and 5Ghz if they're so congested?
Answer: Radio spectrums are like a broad highway. Consider 2.4 and 5 as like the 2 far left lanes on a highway, but there are maybe 6 more lanes.

These 6 lanes are reserved for military communications(2 lanes), emergency responders radios(1 lane), aircraft radio communications(1 lane), and cell phone companies(2 lanes).

These other 6 lanes are vital to be restricted - what would happen if a bunch of people clogged up the aircraft lane and people flying couldn't get through to the air traffic control! That would be bad! So the FCC makes sure these important lanes stay clear as possible. Sure there are more reserved lanes - but I cut the example to just a few.

Question: Why do people think that US income tax is unconstitutional? If so, why isn't this bigger news?
Answer: > Why do people think that US income tax is unconstitutional?

Because people don't want to pay income tax, so they grasp at straws to try to find a way out of it.  For instance, some people claim that, because the versions of 16th amendment that were ratified by the states have slight differences in the spelling of words, capitalization, and punctuation, it was never properly ratified, and is thus invalid.

Another argument is that, since congress didn't pass an official proclamation of Ohio's 1803 admission to statehood until 1953, that Ohio wasn't a state until 1953, and thus the whole ratification process is invalid.  This despite the fact that a) it's ridiculous, and b) the amendment still would have passed even without Ohio's ratification.

Question: Binary Options
Answer: Binary options are a type of financial instrument which can be exercised based on the value of some asset at or after some point in time.

For example, a given option may pay the option holder 10$ if the value of a single share of ACME exceeds $100 on July 13th 2018 at the close of market.

If I am the option holder, and I believe that the price will exceed $100 on that date, I should keep the option.

If I am the option holder, and I believe that the price will fall below $100 on that date, I should sell the option.

If I am not an option holder, and I believe that the price will exceed $100 on that date, I should buy the option for less than $10.

If I am not an option holder, and I do not believe that the price will exceed $100 on that date, I should not buy the option at all.

The binary option industry is absolutely rife with fraud and sketchy practices, so they should be avoided like the plague.

Question: the difference between the FBI, CIA, NSA, and Homeland Security.
Answer: The Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) is a police force that is run by the federal government. This means they investigate and respond to crimes within the US. They also happen to be responsible for counter-intelligence, or put another way, they are responsible for investigating the crime of espionage inside the US.

The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is just that; a central agency for gathering intelligence on other countries. It was originally meant to just gather and analyze intelligence from the US's other intelligence services (mostly military and state department) and put it in one place for the administration to use, instead of collecting its own intelligence. However, around the time of the Korean War it was given the authority to collect its own intelligence and conduct covert action.

The National Security Agency (NSA) is responsible for collecting and analyzing signals intelligence, meaning any information on foreign countries that is transmitted by wire or radio. It started as a codebreaking unit in WWI. The name is a carryover from the various names of the agencies it came from (Signal Security Agency, then Army Security Agency, then Armed Forces Security Agency, then National Security Agency).

The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) was created as a response to the terrorist attacks of 9-11, and particularly the disorganization of and lack of communication between various security and intelligence agencies in the US that allowed the attacks to happen. The DHS was created to take a number of different security agencies and roles, which were spread across a large number of different agencies, and put them all under one organization. It is more "proactive" than the FBI, in the sense it is supposed to actively prevent terrorist attacks, instead of solving crimes after the fact, and it also has a wider scope than the other agencies, since border protection and disaster preparedness and response also fall under their umbrella.

Edit: It should be noted that the FBI and DHS are internal agencies and have police authority; they can conduct arrests and prosecute US citizens, given the proper warrants, etc. The CIA and the NSA are foreign intelligence agencies and explicitly do not have the authority to arrest US citizens, or spy on them. This is why leaks about the NSA's monitoring programs are such a big deal; essentially, by using the excuse that the communications were with foreigners, the NSA has been wiretapping *everyone* without a warrant.

Question: If you are deaf do you need to be concerned about your ears? In terms out volume
Answer: Yes.

While you may be deaf loud noises can still cause both pain and physical damage to your ears.

Question: Why is the plastic no longer opaque on this sticker?
Answer: Because one side of that plastic has lots of bumps, so when light passes through it, the light is refracted and scattered in random directions. However, the sticker fills in these bumps and leaves a smooth surface for light to pass straight through unobstructed.

Question: Why do most devices that use multiple batteries need to have them alternated?
Answer: Efficiency. 

Most devices require more voltage than a single battery produces. For example, a AA battery produces 1.5 volts. If you need 3 volts, you need to connect two AA batteries in a series. That means you need to join the positive end of one battery to the negative end of of the next battery.

The easiest way to do that is for the batteries to be placed in alternating directions. That makes it really easy to join the positive end of one battery to the negative end of the other. If the two batteries were in the same direction you would need much more wiring, which would take up more space and waste more material.

Question: If Republicans are for small government why are they introducing so many laws thrusting their religion on to others?
Answer: Mostly because Republicans haven't been for small government in several years. Republicans and Democrats just have different opinions on which parts of government should be bigger or smaller. In general, Democrats want to control what you do outside of your house, Republicans want to control what you do inside of it.

Question: What function do Tinder bots serve?
Answer: It's selling porn. That's it. Those sketchy links you end up getting sent by a tinder bot or anything else are just porn. The one reaping the benefit is the person selling the porn.

Question: do sperms come with pre-installed intelligence and character or are all sperms the same and develop these traits later?
Answer: I like to compare intelligence to a glass of water. You can think of the size of the glass as your genetic contribution (the instructions encoded within sperm and egg cells) and the water itself as your environment. The size of your glass determines how much water you can hold, and obviously a larger glass will hold more water. 

However, the amount of water you can hold also depends upon how much water is available (the quality of your family life, education, and personal experiences). If you're experiencing a drought, it doesn't matter how large your glass is--you'll end up with the same amount of water. Conversely, if you have a small cup you won't be able to hold much water no matter how much water is available. In the end, you need both an adequately sized cup (healthy genes) and lots of water (an enriched environment with diversified experiences) to be intelligent.

Now given that both genetics and environment are mutually dependent upon each other, the questions then becomes: which factor is more powerful? And though this question is still up for debate, [recent studies](_URL_0_) have estimated intelligence to be between 22% and 46% due to genetic inheritance.

***tl;dr:*** *Sperm and egg cells carry genetic information which places limits on intelligence (about 1/3rd of overall intellectual ability). However, sufficient experience is also required for that intelligence to develop and seems to play a larger role (about 2/3rds of overall intellectual ability).*

Question: How do high areas of heat ripple our vision?
Answer: Hot air is less dense than cold air, and light travels through them at slightly different speeds. At the boundaries between hot and cold air, the difference causes light to refract (aka bend) as it passes from one to the other. As the hot air rises and circulates with cold air, the boundaries between hot and cold constantly change as well as does the direction of light passing through. This creates the moving, ripple effect.

Question: Do additives in gasoline from petroleum companies such as Invigorate or Triclean actually do anything? Or are they just a gimic to attract unaware customers? Or maybe they do a little but are essentially negligible. Please explain what they are and if they are worth a damn.
Answer: Ok you have 2 blends of gas, summer and winter, each blends has additives required from your country mandated as law, these are mainly detergents to keep your fuel system clean and THEY WORK GREAT! Every gas station has the minimum guaranteed.  

Problem comes with the "special additives" such as shell, to be completely honest? It's not worth the extra money. Top tier gas included. You are more likely to spin a bearing, throw a rod, blow a gasket, bend a valve, burn a valve, placing "octane boost" on top of premium in a recommended 87 octane car because "it was running rough" (pro tip: if it says premium, get premium, if it says regular get regular!) on top of a host of other issues that is easy preventive maintenance than to "gunk up" your fuel injectors, even then a bottle of seafoam and your set (fixes most fuel injector issues outside of wiring/failing) and even then it's extremely uncommon to see.  

I'm sure you've seen the "valve" that shell gas prevented correct? It's a leaky valve stem o-ring leaking oil down, the problem only corrects itself with a replacement seal and a possible new valve, at high rpms it can cause a misfire from valve float

Question: Why do some TV shows like TBBT and Homeland make it over to prime time British TV, but Parks and Recreation and Breaking Bad don't?
Answer: Either the networks there believe that they will not be popular enough to justify acquiring the rights to, or the rights holders in the US are asking for more money than the British networks are willing to pay.

Question: Why do worldleaders even think about going to war with eachother even though they know that it will cost incredible amounts of money and many innocent lives?
Answer: War is usually about land and resources. If one country needs land for farming and it's taken by another country, they will not have the ability to feed their people. If land with valuable minerals or oil is taken, the country losing that land will have less ability to progress by using those resources. If a shipping lane is taken, some countries might even become trapped, unable to import or export goods.

Question: Is there a finite amount of potable water? If so, what terms would completely deplete it? Can the finite amount be used to make more?
Answer: There is a finite amount of water. Saltwater can be treated to make potable water but it's still limited. We couldn't make more unless we utilized chemical reactions like hydrogen peroxide, etc.

Question: El Niño. What the FUCK happened to winter?
Answer: Okay, so, the pacific ocean is really big, and really windy. The winds push all of the water to the west, and it wells up warm surface water along the western pacific. Every once in a while, for reasons we don't yet fully understand, the wind gets a little weaker, and the pacific ocean has a crazy backwash. Then that flops against the far coast, and washes back again.

That wave of warm water crossing the pacific twice creates El Nino and La Nina, these periods of bizarre weather.

We're not sure if El Nino is happening more often than it used to or not. We're definitely in a rough patch, but we don't have enough historical data to say if it's just a rough patch or connected to climate change. But it'll happen again in 2-7 years if the rough patch doesn't subside.

Question: How are young birds and eggs safe in nests? Aren't they sitting ducks?
Answer: First and foremost.  Did you just make this post for a sitting ducks pun?

Second, that is why a great many birds build nests way up on the top of trees.  Those that don't generally try to disguise it in the underbrush.  

But yes, at the end of the day, eggs do get eaten.  Nature doesn't care that much about the death rate, so long as the survival rate is enough to keep the species going.

Question: Why are gasoline prices so volatile especially compared to other staples like bread or milk?
Answer: Because the markup on gasoline is much smaller than the markup on more processed goods like bread.  [Wheat prices](_URL_0_) are similarly volatile as [oil prices](_URL_2_), but there's about a nickel of wheat in a loaf of bread, so when the price of wheat moves by 50% it impacts the total cost of the loaf by only a couple percent (and most of the other costs are much more stable).  

Oil is the majority of the cost of gasoline, so when oil prices move gasoline prices often rapidly follow.  

Milk is unique because dairy prices are heavily influenced [by the government](_URL_1_).

Question: How can an advanced US destroyer collide with a tanker in open waters? Are there no alarms or nobody steering? How can something like that go unnoticed?
Answer: The most common reason is human error:

– Insufficient watch-keeping.

– Lack of situational awareness.

– Failure to set priorities – lack of positive action.

– Preoccupation with administrative tasks.

– Failure to communicate intentions (officer/master/pilot).

– Lack of assertiveness – failure to challenge incorrect decisions (officer/master/pilot).

– Failure to comply with standard procedures and international regulations.

– Failure to utilise available data and resources.

– Lack of training – “human-technology” interface.

With all these causes though there may well be systemic causes behind the human errors, such as inadequate training, ambiguous responsibilities, stressful job, etc.

Collisions are fairly common though.

Question: Why do drive-thru fast food places have two Windows even though only one is used?
Answer: When order volumes are high enough, and when they have staff for it, they can run both windows, which makes the drive-thru a little more efficient. But it doesn't make sense to run it that way when order volumes are lower.

Question: Why do guys feel it in their stomach when they get hit in then balls?
Answer: In humans, the testicles start out life in the abdomen and descend through its lower wall, eventually ending up external to the body. This gives them a number of connections to the abdomen; they're basically wrapped in every layer of the abdominal wall. Their nerve supply comes from the abdomen as well, apparently resulting in what's called "referred pain," where pain is felt in places not involved in the injury.

Question: How can we assume that people recycle properly? What happens if someone accidentally throws a non-recyclable item into the recycling?
Answer: The recycling plant has machines and people to split recycling. Even if it where all recycled properly you still need to put the coke can in the aluminum recycling machine and the coke bottle into the glass recycling machine.

Question: Why are there no gray people?
Answer: There are in-between colored people; they’re brown, not grey. White people aren’t ivory white, and black people aren’t ebony black; we’ve got some reddish hue that shows through our skin. Black people from Africa are very dark skinned – in American and many European nations, we often see someone with brown skin and consider them with black, but they’re of mixed skin town. A lot of people in other nations have skin so black that they’ll make you wonder why we chose the word ‘black’ to describe people that are actually Crayola brown; brown is what you’re wondering why it doesn’t exist, and it does.

Question: Why when I put my banana in my lunch bag, does everything taste like banana?
Answer: Whilst I can't really answer your question, have you tried a "banana guard" or similar product? Covering it would reduce contact with the rest of your lunch (potentially helping with the flavour problem) and protect the fruit from bruising at the same time.

I do know that bananas release ethylene as they ripen but according to Wikipedia it is a "colorless flammable gas with a faint 'sweet and musky' odor when pure".

Unlike orange oil which can be found in orange peel, bananas don't contain any banana oil. Amyl acetate, a synthetic chemical commonly called banana oil, actually gets its nickname from the strong banana-like scent, so none can be found in bananas.

Taste does have a lot to do with smell though. Perhaps the natural banana smell is enough to make things taste a bit like banana.

Question: Would it be possible to change a planet's atmosphere, terrain, etc enough to make it capable of supporting life
Answer: The process that you are referring to is called Terra forming. Theoretically it would be possible, though at current times, we struggle just to manage maintaining little national parks. The process of changing another planets atmosphere without drastically changing it too much might be more than we could ever manage.

Question: Quantum Mechanics Superpositions
Answer: The superposition principle is a property of waves (more precisely it's a
property of a linear system, and most wave equations are linear) that
says if you add two waves together you get another wave.
You are most likely familiar with superpositions even if you don't know it,
for example a C note on a piano is a sound wave, as are the notes E and G.
If you combine these three sound waves you get another sound wave - a chord.


What about Quantum Mechanics? Well in QM a particle such as an electron is
described by the Schrödinger equation, which is a linear wave equation. The
QM wave describes the state, a combination of properties like energy and position,
of the particle. Because it's a linear wave then the superposition principle
also applies to it: the electron with 1 MeV of energy is a wave, and the electron
with 2 MeV of energy is a wave, and so the combination of these two waves is also
a wave describing the electron. Much like the chord wave has both a C note and an E note, we
can have a wave where the electron has both 1 MeV of energy and 2 MeV of energy.


The question then is does this mean anything and if so what? It turns out these
superpositions can exist, and you can do experiments to prove it. (The electron
double-slit is a famous one, where an electron interferes with itself just
like sound waves or light waves can do). But it gets weird when you want to
measure the properties of this superposition wave. It turns out that when you
measure the property of a superposition wave it 'collapses' into a wave that
is not a superposition of that property. So for example the electron
superposition of both 1 MeV and 2 MeV collapses into a wave
which is either 1 MeV or 2 MeV. Whether it'll collapse to the 1 MeV wave or 2 MeV wave is random
and depends on the relative strength of the two waves.

Question: Where do Syrians get their weapons? And why do they still get them?
Answer: Many of the weapons spread throughout Africa and the Middle East are remnants of the collapse of the U.S.S.R. There were so many spread throughout the region that when it fell many of the weapons ended up on the black market etc. That is one reason you see so many with AK's. That and AK's are one of the most reliable weapons. They were built with more mechanical tolerance so they do not jam as easy etc.

Question: Why do Energy Drinks only come in cans while water only comes in bottles, yet pop/soda can go either way?
Answer: Having worked in the Soda industry, I remember asking once why Soda bottles expired a lot quicker than soda in cans, and it's due to the plastic deteriorating due to the acid in the beverages. There are a few Energy drinks that come in the plastic bottles, NOS comes to mind, however I'm willing to wager that the gut rot we get from the stronger energy drinks works very much the same on the plastic bottles. By putting them in the metal cans it would essentially help increase the shelf life of the product.

Question: Explain to me the fourth dimension
Answer: You might enjoy these previous posts on the topic:

_URL_0_

_URL_1_

Question: Why does it seem that anywhere you go these days , there is background music playing (gas stations , malls , airplanes) ?
Answer: It's mostly a subconscious thing. There is some evidence to suggest that the tempo of the music playing will affect customers behavior.

Slow music in a store might cause some customers to slow down and look around, and possibly even buy more.

Fast music in a restaurant might cause  diners to eat faster so that the table will be ready sooner.

Holiday music might put the customer in a better mood, it might not though.

Question: How are sanctuary cities a thing. Why is it not aganist the law to harbour an illegal
Answer: It is the federal government's job to enforce immigration law. The states don't need to help out in any way legally speaking. A "sanctuary city" is a city which has an official policy of not helping the federal government, but not obstructing them.

If it was illegal to let an illegal alien exist within your city then the federal government would be able to impose duties on state law enforcement, a big legal overreach.

Question: Why are front yard fences generally shorter than back yard fences?
Answer: Fences are built for many reasons. Back yard fences are often for privacy and/or protection. Front yard fences are often for decoration and property delineation. Also, many communities have restrictions on the height of front yard fences.

Question: How does washing your hands kill germs?
Answer: Generally it doesn't, it just moves the germs away. Kinda like washing mud off your hands doesn't destroy the mud, just moves it elsewere.

That's with regular soap. Do not use antibacterial soap. Or antibacterial anything for that matter. Getting rid of germs seems logical (after all, that's what causes diseases), but doing that messes up your immune system, causes allergies and other health problems. That doesn't mean you should start living like a caveman though, find the balance.

source: med school

Question: What is exactly social security?
Answer: You work, you pay SS. The taxes you pay go to someone else who is receiving SS. When you retire you will be paid by others who currently work. The amount you get paid receiving SS is influenced by the amount of taxes you contributed.

SS is facing issues but the worst case scenario (ignoring total economic collapse) is you receive 60-80% what a person would have today.

SS you will likely receive less than you pay in (inflation adjusted) if you work a full life time. Medicare is the opposite and most beneficaries receive $2 to $3 for every $1 contributed which will likely be a larger issue than SS funding.

Question: When humans die our bodies rot. When insects die they just dry up. Why?
Answer: Their insides rot.  But their 'skeleton' is on the outside, and just like humans, it's the hardest part and resists breaking down the longest.

Question: Why is there so much Leprosy in India?
Answer: First we must consider that India seems to be the origin point of the evolution of leprosy about 2500 years ago. The amount of cases is always highest I around a disease's point of origin. In general,  infectious diseases tend to do very well in the warm climate of the tropics. See how malaria remains largely confined to the warm swampy areas? 

The answer mentioned by /u/arm4da is demonstrably false. Pre-colonial India and China together formed the world's richest region region at the time, with very high cultural sophistication. Yet Leprosy has been high I'm India even in those days. It was termed 'Maha-rog' or 'the Great disease'. Lepers were alienated from Indian society as a form of quarantine. This indicates that Indians were clearly aware of the contagious nature of the disease. 

Finally, leprosy is a slow disease,  taking up to 20 years after infection for symptoms to manifest. It is difficult to detect when a person is infectious.

Taking these together, you can see that while there are relatively few cases of leprosy in the world compared to say TB, or malaria,  they mostly concentrated around its point of origin in India.

Question: Why is it that our body doesn't prevent us from biting our own tongue?
Answer: It tries to.  Haven't you ever, mid-bite, had that sudden "Uh oh, danger!" feeling - but then it's too late, the deed is done before you could stop it?

Question: Why do my feet feel sweaty when they get cold?
Answer: The feeling of cold and the feeling of pressure, combined, confuses your nerves with the feeling of wet. If you were to step onto a coin in after stumbling awake in the middle of the night, you would at first mistake it for stepping in a wet spot.

Question: Why do containers that had egg in them bubble and froth so much, even when just rinsed?
Answer: Egg whites contain a lot of liquid protein, which forms a thin and strong layer, a temporary membrane that fills with air to make a bubble.

Question: If someone is using a computer to launch DDoS attacks or do other things on the internet, is it possible to see this activity with a program like Fiddler?
Answer: So I assume you have a computer which you think is participating in a DDoS, and want to load something on that computer to confirm or not.  You have the right idea, but I don't think Fiddler is the best tool.  For Fiddler to see traffic, the originating application, or attack program has to be configured to flow traffic through Fiddler, and I would think attack programs wouldn't be so configured.

What you really want is Wireshark, which is a network sniffing application.  It will passively observe all traffic in and out of the machine.  Unfortunately, you will need to be knowledgeable and older than 5 to interpret the output as it is fairly complicated.

For something easier, I would recommend running a boot time virus scan which would find most problems.

Question: Why is it so difficult to swallow when you look up, or tilt your head backwards?
Answer: Because tilting your head back opens your airway and they can't both be open at the same time.

Question: Why are there so many seagulls in the local shopping center parking lot even though I'm nowhere near close to the ocean or a large body of water.
Answer: Seagull is a common or informal name for many different types birds that are located pretty much everywhere across the planet.  The gulls you are seeing are probably ring-billed gulls.  They do like to nest near water, but since they can eat pretty much anything, they are commonly found near easy to find food sources.

Question: How do Governments pay back trillions worth of debts?
Answer: We are perpetually paying off old debt while creating new debt.

Debt is basically the total money the US government owes to people who hold government bonds. These government bonds set out a repayment schedule, and the US has never missed a payment since the revolution making it one of the safest investments on earth. If you buy a $5,000 2 year bond, it means you pay the government $5,000 and over the next 2 years they will pay you back $5,000 plus interest. 

Bonds are important, they help balance "risk" by being very very safe. In a risky world economy, lots of people want to buy bonds and that means the US has no problem finding buyers without raising interest rates. So government debt does "go away" but it is replaced by new debt at the same time. Even in the 90s when the debt was "going down" we were still creating new debt, just not as fast as we were paying off old debt.

Question: Why do people from SA Asia and Singapore use "LA" in nearly every sentence? What does it means?
Answer: Singlish (and Manglish) is a mixture of local languages with English and used in informal situations. It's most likely from the Malay suffix *-lah* which makes a verb into a command so it's the imperative.

So, if you go out with people and get your food but the waiter has to get the food of the other people you're with, somebody might say "eat lah" meaning that you should start eating.

You can also use it if you're impatient. Like, your girlfriend / boyfriend is taking forever in the bath so you'd say "hurry up lah"

It's also used to give more impact to your statements. Like, a short negative response can be followed by *-lah* indicating that you are really serious with your response. Not that you are serious as in it's a serious situation but that you seriously want to give a negative response. Like, "I really don't know where your wallet is" "don't know lah".

It can also be used to strengthen positive things like encouraging your friend in a hard situation. Like, "don't worry lah! It's gonna be fine"

Or to curse at people. "Go and die lah!" 

The thing with Singlish is that it's a really informal language. It's a sign of being educated if you can fluently switch between proper English and Singlish. So, if you speak Singlish, you are probably in a sort of informal situation so it gets a lot of use since you are more likely to use informal speech in such situations.

Question: How come back in the 50s and 60s it was safe for parents to let their kids go off and play all day, but as the years progressed that changed?
Answer: It's always just as safe. The difference is that parents now are more paranoid.

Question: How do zero calorie energy drinks work?
Answer: >  Is is just that there are chemicals in it that inhibit the neurotransmitters that make you feel tired, or something else along those lines?

Yeah, pretty much. Stimulants like Caffeine work by basically telling your brain "you are awake" or blocking the signals that say "you are tired" (the exact mechanism depends on the stimulant) as opposed to actually giving you energy.

Question: A lot of history books talk about the banning of atmospheric tests of thermonuclear weapons in the 60's. Where do they test them now and how is it safer?
Answer: When they are tested underground there is very little dust kicked up into the atmosphere. When the Soviet Union tested the largest thermonuclear device ever the physicist in charge deliberately did not make it as powerful as possible because the effects would be too wide spread and long lasting.

Question: why do some bottles of alcohol have flow regulators/fun stoppers/plastic thingy at the tip of the bottle? And some don't?
Answer: ITT: People who think the OP is asking about those add-on pour spouts that bartenders use. We are talking about the plastic filter/screen thingy that is *inside* the top of the bottle, *underneath* the original cap, already installed when you buy the bottle from the store.

To answer the question, they are usually only included on bottles of liquor that is used for pouring shots and mixed drinks in a haphazard fashion from a plastic bottle in order to minimize glugging and overpouring.

Question: If a heart is stopped (cardiac arrest), how can a shot of adrenaline sometimes work?
Answer: If the heart is stopped, you're not going to start it again. A lot of people think that drugs or a defibrillator will start a stopped heart, it won't happen. 

Epinephrine will cause a slowed heart to speed up as well as increase your breathing rate. It does this by blocking the pancreas' ability to produce insulin (this increases your blood sugar) and increases the available fat for use as energy around your cells. Together this causes a huge surge of energy.

Epinephrine causes smooth muscle to relax, but at the same time contract with more force. So your airway will open, and your heart and arteries will contract with a greater force.  All of this basically speeds up the amount of sugar and oxygen that gets to your tissues, reversing the causes of shock.

Edit: not sure why I'm getting a few downvotes. I'm a paramedic and kinda know a few things about the question asked.

Question: Why Most Rappers Have the Urge to Say Their Name in Their Music?
Answer: Educated guess here but in hip-hop it's very common to feature other artists on a track so it helps the artist gain exposure and let's the listener know who's verse or was when they like it. Also worth mentioning that alot of artists (Kanye and travis scott particularly) don't put the feature artists name on the track. 

I'm also sure it has something to do with rap music becoming less unique so rappers feel the need to remind us who they are because so many others bite flows/rhyme schemes

Question: what technology exists to help us shoot down and protect ourselves from nuclear missiles, and how effective is it?
Answer: There are three (known) systems in place by the US. One ship based, that sits near a potential launch site, trying to knock it down as it boosts up, and two land based ones that attempt to intercept the missile later in its flight.

None are considered reliable. If anything actually shoots down a missile in a real world scenario, it would be considered a lucky shot.

edit: 

I should point out the defense that is FAR more effective that is in existence and many possess the capability to do. You nuke the F!@# out of your enemy in a massive, targeted first strike on them **before** they can launch any of their missile, and which would likely prevent them from doing so, which also prevents even the chance that you would have to use unreliable defenses, because they ain't shooting nothing back. This was actually a major, and horrifying, tactic both the US and Russia came up with during the cold war, often called a "decapitation strike". Both sides considered this the optimal strategy, and both sides luckily backed down from it

Question: Why can't a network host a debate including third party candidates?
Answer: Cant get the big guys to play unless forced. I'm sorry but I dont see any of the third party candidates with the type of organizational skills I expect to see from a presidential hopeful. And they've known for nearly a year that this could be a big year for a third party candidate.

Question: What does it mean when the ingredients of a food product say “natural flavors” ?
Answer: If you grow fungis and other microbilogic stuff in a lab you can get all kinds of flavours. Its a missleading term. Technically it is all natural but it doesnt mean the flavour in your orange juice is from oranges...

Question: Why are circuit lines sometimes squiggly?
Answer: It is so that every lane takes the same time as the others. They are squiggly because those memory components have a shorter distance than others and to have them all run at the same speed, so to get them to run at the same speed as one thats farther away it has to run a larger distance that is equal to the others.

Question: From an actual 5 year old; what makes water stick to surfaces?
Answer: Polarity. The water molecule is unbalanced, and has an attractive field on the molecular level. This very weak magnetism allows it to cling to things. The reason it clings is the same reason why surface tension exists: water likes to cling to other polar molecules. This means that it likes to cling to itself, as well as other materials that are made from polar molecules. The cup is made of polar molecules, which is why water is mildly attracted to the cup.

Question: Why are There So Many Lost Episodes of KaBlam?
Answer: Most of the last season, 4, was un-aired when the show was cancelled.  Some episodes were televised as parts of specials and some were not shown due to copy write or standards issues.  

My unreliable source is the wikipedia article (I didn't know about the topic personally): _URL_0_!

Question: Do copper sleeves and braces for your body really work? If so, how?
Answer: They absolutely don't work at all. But wait, there's more! Ok sadly there isn't, it's just basically a scam, there's no evidence this stuff does anything.

Question: theres so many types of toothpaste that supposedly do different things, but they all have the same one active ingredient.
Answer: There are indeed inactive ingredients that have different benefits, but almost none are significant. The best toothpastes have fluoride, xylitol, no sodium lauryl sulfate. Tom's clean  &  gentle is a good one, so is Biotene (expensive), or Spry/Squigle with fluoride. -dental hygienist.

Question: What the difference(s) between a pub, a bar, and tavern?
Answer: Bars are typically geared toward alcohol, a pub is geared towards food and alcohol, and a tavern normally is a pub with rooms to rent for nights. I could be wrong, but that's what I grew up thinking :)

Question: why do we gag when we smell or see something gross?
Answer: A wise man once told me, "You know what the difference is between smelling shit and eating shit? Parts per million."

Question: Why is my cat obsessed with me after taking a shower?
Answer: This is an educated guess, but most likely because you have a different smell. Cats have a great sense of smell and identifies other by it, they "know" you because they know your smell and after a shower you are a new "human" that they need to befriend.

This is also a reason why if you have two cats and one is taken to vet the other will sometimes hiss at it when you come home, because smell tells it that a "new" cat has come in to their territory.

Question: In these sanctuary cities, Why are the Mayor and city council not being charged with aiding and abetting a criminal, and harboring a fugitive?
Answer: They aren't actually breaking any laws or (legally speaking) aiding and abetting anyone.

They're just refusing to do the Federal Government's job for them. It's not up to individual local governments to enforce federal law and they can't be forced to if they don't want to. 

If they were actively preventing federal officials from entering their cities that would be a different story, but that's not what they are doing.

Question: Before gunpowder weaponry, how were any naval battles fought?
Answer: A few diffrent ways. I'd recommend /r/askhistorians for a more complete explanation.

There's a few things that were done:

1. ramming other boats, either to breach their hull and to sink them, or to send over troops for boarding actions.

2. Archers stationed on deck firing arrows, either regular ones of fire arrows to kill the enemy crew or set their ship alight.

3. Mounted heavy weapons like catapults or ballista's that would fire a vareity of projectiles to damage the enemy ship or set it on fire.


anything involving giant parabolic mirrors probably isn't true.

Question: The differences and pros/cons between leasing a car and buying it (with monthly payments).
Answer: You should do some math when you're deciding between the two (along with what anyone4apint said).

Determine how much money you will have paid out at the end of the loan (finance option).  Let's say it was a $23k car and you paid out $26k after interest.

Find out what value your vehicle should have after 5 years (it helps if you are looking at a model that has been around for awhile.  See what a 5 year old model is worth today at a site like _URL_0_).

Let's say your car after 5 years (this is all assuming you'd finance for 60 months) is worth $14k.  So at the end of 5 years, you've paid out 26k and have 14k to show for it (lost 12k, to depreciation and interest, basically).

Now, most leases don't last for 60 months, but take whatever your lease payment is and then multiply that by 60 (and add any $ that you put down at the beginning of the lease).

Does that exceed $12k? (it probably will).

Now, that alone will pretty much always show that financing is better when it comes to money out of your pocket, but on the other hand, leasing a car means you'll usually always have a newer car (you'd likely lease something new after 3 years), you're paying a bit less on maintenance (but maybe more on insurance since dealers will require a higher level of insurance compared to state minimums).

Is the difference in the money from the first example worth more to you than the convenience of a lease?

I've leased cars in the past (Mini Cooper) and currently finance a car (Dodge Dart Aero).  I think I did the right one in both cases (Mini Coopers are notoriously expensive to maintain so you are generally paying extra for a maintenance contract if you decide to keep the car at the end of the lease).  Leases are very convenient if you're okay with always having a car payment and you have no interest in keeping a car for more than 3 years or so.

Question: Internet infrastructure.
Answer: Inside your computer is something called a NIC (Network Interface Card). It has two main jobs - send data, and receive data.

Hook it up to another computer via an Ethernet cable and you have a simple network. Your computer's send is hooked up to the other's receive and vice-versa.

What if you want another computer? You add something called a Switch. All three computers now plug into the switch, rather than each other. The switch's job is to take data from one computer's "send" wire and send it to another computer's "receive" wire. To do this, it remembers the MAC Address of each NIC connected to it. (Every NIC has a unique MAC address set at the time of manufacture).

So now we have a basic network. Your neighbour John has done the same thing, and he now has his own network. You want to connect them together. Your Switch isn't going to want to have to remember every MAC address of every NIC being connected to and disconnected from every network, so...

Enter the Router. The Router does what it says on the tin - it routes traffic across networks. A router is like a computer with more than one NIC. (In fact, you can use an actual PC with two NICs as a router). One NIC will connect to the switch on your network, the other will connect to the switch in your neighbour's network.

The router will be set up with something called a "routing table" which is just information about the networks, now using IP (Internet Protocol) addresses rather than hardware MAC addresses, and where they are located - ie. Which NIC do I use to get traffic to John's network? (IP Addresses are structured for larger networks that NICs - ie. given a 'subnet mask', the router can work out which network an IP Address belongs to. So Routers tend to think in terms of networks, whereas switches tend to think in terms of Devices).

So when you send data to one of your neighbours computers, your computer will know that it's on a different network and will send it to the Router to deal with. Your computer doesn't know anything about John's network or how exactly to get there, and it doesn't need to. It just knows that the Router will take care of it. The router will look at the destination address, and send the packet to John's switch to be relayed to the destination.

Keep adding switches, routers, computers and other devices and the network gets bigger and bigger. As is the case with the internet. Also, the networks might not be directly connected together - data might have to travel across more than one subsection of the network to reach its destination.

Also, in a network the size of the internet, every router won't know about every other router on the network - it will only know about what it's connected to. To get data all the way across the internet, each router only needs to figure out the next 'hop' until the data gets to it's destination. You can see this happening by opening up a command prompt and typing:

    tracert _URL_1_

That will show you the 'route' to the internet to get to _URL_1_. (Mine took 11 hops). Each entry in that list is a router. You'll probably find that the first one or two belong to your ISP.

The other thing is that routes can take different paths depending on many factors, such as if a segment of the network goes down, the routers can intelligently find alternate routes around the problem.

If the destination simply can't be reached, for example if [some old woman cuts the underground cable connecting America to other parts of the world](_URL_0_), the packets of data will just bounce around different routers until it times out.

Question: How that tugboat from the front page could pull the ship 10 times it's own size
Answer: Tug Boats are basically motors with a ship built around them. One big floating motor designed to move ships.

Question: How does muscle enable us to lift heavier things?
Answer: Muscles are made of fibres which contract to make a certain action. For example, a bicep curl. The more muscle, the more fibres. The more fibres you have contracting together, the more force you create. More force allows you to lift more.

Question: Looking beyond energy independence. How do we (practically) replace the other crude oil derivatives? e.g. asphalt, lubricants, and other hydrocarbon-derived chemicals.
Answer: Algae are a candidate for creating hydrocarbons, as well as yeast. With genetic-modification of small organisms being developed and used, it's possible to create microorganisms that can turn sugars into hydrocarbons.

_URL_0_

Question: Relationship between India and Pakistan
Answer: India and Pakistan used to be a part of the British empire.
When Pakistan and India got independence in 47, The British messed up the division of Kashmir, just like the messed up the middle east after World War 1(thus the current mess there). During the partition, Kashmir's ruler wanted his own state, but his people wanted to join Pakistan. Pakistan, looking at India invading the states which were originally not theirs,  Pakistan tried to do the same with Kashmir, and invaded Kashmir along with help from the local supporters, and the King of Kashmir asked India for help, thus starting a war between India and Pakistan. During this time, Muslims from India and Hindus from Pakistan we're immigrating to their new countries, Many atrocities were committed by hardliners from both sides, resulting in a total of 1 million people being killed by each other, on top of the war. The war ended in 49, with a front established as a virtual border, and a cease fire agreement was signed.

Fast forward to 1965, where skirmishes in the Rann of Kutch took place between India and Pakistan. By this time Field Marshal Ayub Khan was the head of state of Pakistan, Pakistan had allied with both the United States and China, while India tilted toward the Soviet Union.
The foreign minister of Pakistan, Bhutto was a maoist communist who pressured Ayub to do something to liberate Kashmir. Eventually, Pakistan decided to support Kashmiri Guerillas (and still does) against the Indian occupation. The foreign minister was totally bonkers, and expected the army to invade Kashmir, whileist holding the line against India. (During this time Pakistan's army had 1/4th the manpower and equipment India had) without taking the local tirbal kashmiris into confidence, resulting in the failure of Operation Gibraltar, which the Foreign minister had proposed.
War was declared and eventually a stalemate, With Pakistan holding the line, and achieving air superiority over the India.

Fast forward to 1971, Foreign minister is now the Prime minister, goes bonkers again and is unfair to the Bengalis of East Pakistan, in fear of loosing the election to them (East Pakistan had much more population than West Pakistan). India decides to support the Bengali population, starting millitias and invading East Pakistan. The Pakistani Army was surrounded, so they surrendered and Bangladesh was made.

Fast forward to 1999, both countries have Nukes and are willing to blow each other up at a moments notice. 
Pervez Musharraf, a Pakistani General who took over Pakistan form a civil government which had bought it on the brink of Bankruptcy and failure of the state. Kargil is a strategic position, high in the hills of the Himalayas. In the harsh winters, India abandons it's high ground bunkers and heads back to it's lower ground bunkers, Pakistan sent it's troops to secure those bunkers from India in the winter, Pakistan clearly has the advantage with the enemy out of Kargil, right? 
Wrong. India pressures the US government, who then pressures the Pakistani Civil government on pulling out of Kargil. The government then went bonkers, and turned a Military victory into a political defeat, with most of the Pakistani casualties being suffered while they were pulling back.

Why the war for Kashmir you ask? It's natural resources and most of all, it's water glaciers. India and Pakistan both have huge populations, and less water. Most of Pakistans rivers originate in Kashmir, with India building Dams in the summer, causing a drought in central Pakistan, and thus failure of crops, and then opening the rivers at full speed in the winters to simulate flash floods, once again causing the failure of crops. (The bulk of Pakistan's economy is based on Agriculture)

However, it's not all hatred. Their people share the same language and culture, to an extent.
Pakistan sent humanitarian aids in military transports to India when an earthquake hit India, and India did the same during an earthquake in Pakistan. Infact, before British rule, the Muslims and Hindus got along well, and lived together for centuries! (once again to an extent). Muslims and Hindus even revolted side by side against the British when they tried to force the Indian soldiers to use Muskets, which required handling fat from Cows (which pissed off the Hindus) and Pork fat (which pissed off the Muslims)
This is a very sensitive topic, and this is as neutral as I could become on this.

Question: Why do school buses have to always stop before railroads on open up to doors to listen? If the gates are up, it should be clear.
Answer: Because the gates do not always work, not all rail crossings have gates, and the gates do not always deploy long enough before a train passes for larger slower vehicles to get across should they have some kind of mechanical trouble. 

This requirement is also for more than school buses. It is required of all buses (school or public), and it is required of all trucks hauling hazardous materials.

Question: Why is there a country called Turkey and an animal called turkey when the two have nothing to do with each other? Is there any relationship between the two, or is it just coincidence?
Answer: The bird was named after the region. In the 15th century or so traders started to bring Guinea Fowl from eastern Africa to Turkey where they were then exported to Europe. The birds became known as Turkey-hens. When colonists went to North America they thought the Turkey looked similar and so it too was called Turkey. 

The birds' introduction to other countries by trade is apparent in its many names. In Turkish, the name translates to Indian (as in where Delhi is, not Native American). Same with French (the word went from coq d'Inde (chicken of India) to its modern shortened form, dinde). In Malay, it's known as a Dutch Chicken and in Portuguese its name means Peru bird.

Edit -  Thanks for the all the additions and corrections. And this is a list of *place origins* by language, not the actual word used. I know Kozhikode isn't the word for turkey in Dutch; that's the city the bird was named after.

The list of place origins ascribed to the turkey by language:

* English/Hindi- Turkey
* Georgian/Turkish/Hebrew/French/Armenian/Polish/Russian - India (unclear whether this means subcontinent India or West Indies)
* Arabic - Rome
* Portuguese (Brazil and Portugal) - Peru
* Norse/Dutch/Swedish/Lithuanian - Kozhikode (a city in India)
* Greek/Scottish Gaelic - France
* Vietnamese - the West (translates to "Western Chicken")

Edit 2: /u/luke_in_the_sky wrote up a similar summary for the Guinea pig [here](_URL_0_). And thanks for the gold anonymous redditor!

Question: Why do most Christian groups/people align themselves with the Republican party in the USA when the core beliefs of the religion seem to contradict those of the party?
Answer: While gay marriage and abortion are the wedge issues of today, this alliance predates both being big deals.  I mean, gay marriage wasn't even on the table two decades ago.  

For a long time during the Cold War, Republicans liked to cast Democrats as near-communists, and themselves as the bulwark against those atheist commies.  This started building ties in people's minds between party affiliation and religious affiliation, but the big thing that drove southern Christians to the Republican party was desegregation.  A Democratic president signed the Civil Rights Act, and the (overwhelmingly evangelical Christian) southerners fled the party in response.

All the social issues that followed were adopted to energize this bloc in the party and keep them showing up to vote reliably.

Edit: As a followup, Catholics were, at one time, reliable Democratic voters, not finding much common cause with evangelical protestants.  They were social justice and labor rights voters.  The anti-abortion and now anti-birth control platforms have been used to draw the more conservative of this group into the Christian Right, too.

Question: Do certain characters take up more digital memory space?
Answer: A set of rules for representing characters as data is called a **character encoding**, and there exist a number of different ones, so there isn't one unique answer to this question.  Some examples:

* The oldest encoding in common use is called ASCII, which takes 7 bits per character.  One byte = 8 bits, so ASCII fits in one byte per character.  ASCII can encode simple English text, but cannot handle accent marks or other non-English characters in European Latin scripts, much less scripts from outside Western Europe.
* There are several 8-bit encodings that extend ASCII with extra characters.  For example, [ISO 8859-1](_URL_1_), which was designed for Western European languages; it's also one byte per character, but you can't write any character outside the 200+ that it supports.
* There are a number of old "multi-byte," variable length encodings that were designed for Asian languages like Chinese, Japanese and Korean.  These support ASCII plus one specific language.  Since there are so many Chinese characters, one byte per character isn't enough for these.  Usually they use a *variable length* system where some characters take more bytes to encode than others.
* The modern solution is [Unicode](_URL_0_), which is a shared character set that covers as many languages as practical, plus a family of different encodings.  The two most common Unicode encodings both use a variable length system:
 * UTF-8: characters take 1, 2, 3 or 4 bytes.  ASCII characters fit in one byte; most non-ASCII alphabets fit in two bytes; common Chinese, Japanese and Korean characters fit in three bytes; very unusual characters (e.g., hieroglyphs) take 4 bytes.
 * UTF-16: characters take 2 or 4 bytes.  ASCII, alphabetic and common CJK characters take 2 bytes; very unusual ones take 4 bytes.

So there isn't a single answer to your question.  In UTF-8 "a" takes one byte, "á" takes two and "人" takes three, but in UTF-16 all three take two bytes.  UTF-8 is more common, I'd say, though.

Question: Why do people chop wood?
Answer: It is so that the wood fits into fireplaces, cooking stoves, and so that it is easier to stack in a controlled manner. You do not want a burning log to roll out of a fire so you want to give it at least one flat side.

Question: Why do they remake classic/awesome movies and ruin them? Why don't they take lousy movies and remake them into something good?
Answer: It's considered too risky. If a production company has a choice between remaking a classic movie that did well or remaking a crappy movie that did poorly, they're going to go with the classic movie because it comes with guaranteed brand recognition. They don't care whether or not the movie turns out to be good, they only want to hype it up enough to get people into the theaters; that's where they make the majority of their money.

It's the unfortunate result of an art form that's mostly controlled by people who aren't artists.

Question: Why do we make simple noises / repetitions automatically when talking to babies or small animals, such as cooing/saying hello?
Answer: Baby talk is easier for a baby to understand because it is slow, exaggerated, and uses high tones. Even before the infant can actually understand words, baby talk can teach things like turn-taking in conversation, rhythm and tones in sentences (like how your voice raises in pitch when you're asking a question), and the sounds used in your language. Slightly older babies will also notice that adults don't use baby talk with each other or older children, so they can use those sounds as a cue that you're talking to them.

We do this to pets because we tend to cognitively interpret pets as babies or small children.

Baby talk exists in the majority of human cultures, but not all of them, so there's a learned component to it. However, because it has many characteristics that appeal to infants, infants respond to it more strongly than normal speech, so it's strongly reinforced.

Question: It seems that whenever there's a mass shooting, a SWAT team arrives at the scene almost immediately. What are SWAT teams doing when there's no situation for them to be at?
Answer: Looks like it varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, but it seems that they patrol like normal officers, but their gear may be kept in a special truck so they can travel directly to the scene at the same time as their equipment.

_URL_0_

Question: Why it is metres per second per second instead of metres per second?
Answer: 10 m/s^2 is an acceleration, not a movement, it means that for every second, it moves 10 meters per second faster.

10 m = length

10 m/s = speed

10 m/s^2 = acceleration

Question: What is the advantage for China to buy up other countries debts? Also, how does it work?
Answer: Everyone here is missing it. China is buying loads of US debt for a very important reason: exchange rate. 

Compare the exchange rates of the reminbi (often referred to as RMB, but the official abbreviation is CNY) to the dollar and the Euro:

_URL_0_

You can see clearly that China has controlled the exchange rate with the USD very tightly, but let the EUR rate float. In 2006 the Bush administration negotiated a deal to let the rate float, and then the Obama administration scored another deal in 2010. This is very important to China; because, keeping the RMB cheap against the dollar helps keep Chinese manufactured good cheap, which in turn is what keeping their economy thundering along at 8% growth. Conversely, the US would like the RMB to grow stronger against the USD so that Chinese goods aren't so much cheaper than American goods, and the US can have a hope of manufacturing things. (of course, if the RMB appreciates too quickly, suddenly the market experiences a shock of skyrocketing prices, and consumption drops, killing both economies.) 

This effect isn't achieved just by magical thinking. The way China does this is that they "print" loads and loads of RMB and buy USD-denominated securities with them, in particular, US Treasury Bonds. In essence, the Chinese government is creating an artificial demand for dollars and excess supply of RMB, keeping the dollar strong against their own currency. 

Of course, there's a catch. The USD is the world's reserve currency. There are (depending on how you choose to count) roughly 15 trillion dollars in cash-like form out in the wild. So, manipulating that big a thing takes some serious weight. Which means China has to buy a LOT of dollars (roughly 1.1 trillion to date). Because they are buying so much, supply and demand dictates that the asset price should rise, which, in the world of bonds, means that the return on the bonds becomes very low. In effect, this means that in order to keep their economy going, the Chinese are constantly lending the US money at dirt cheap rates so the Americans can, eventually, send it back in the form of revenues for Chinese manufacturers. Simultaneously, China and the US are getting deeply locked together economically, even as uncomfortable as they are with each other politically. 

---

With regards to buying debt buying "nothing:" There's an old aphorism: "If you owe a million dollars, the bank owns you. If you owe a billion dollars, you own the bank." A debt is an asset. If the bank loans me money to buy a car, it is not in the hope that I will default on the loan and they will repossess the car (which would, on its best day, only barely mitigate their losses). The want 3-6 years of debt service payments. By loaning the money out at 6.9% interest (or whatever rate they sold it at) they have created a revenue stream, and this goes on their books as such. And it's good business for both sides: for me, by buying the car, I am able to work and do other economic activity I otherwise couldn't, thus solving the chicken-and-egg problem of needing a car for work, but needing work for a car; and for the bank, because they take an asset that does nothing (cash) and turn it into a source of income. Of course, the real banking system takes this a step further: A bank can borrow from the Federal Reserve at a rock star interest rate, let's say 0.01% for the sake of the argument. But if they then lend that money at 6.9%, they are turning 6.89% profit on an asset they don't even "own!" Which is why it often makes sense for the federal government to take on debt: if they get money at near-zero interest, spend on activities that grow the economy (like say, building tanks or roads) and the economy grows at 3%, increasing their tax revenues accordingly, then it was a smart investment to take out that original debt. Anyhow, coming back to the original comment: buying a debt is buying a revenue stream, so debt is definitely an asset - to the debt holder.

Question: how the stock market and investing works.
Answer: Okay. Say you have lemonade stand. You built it, you buy the lemons and the sugar and the cups, and any profit left after doing those things is all yours. You're the sole owner. 

Now, your lemonade is fucking delicious and the stand is doing really well. You'd like to open another one and hire some helpers to run it for you. You could wait until you pile up enough profit, though that might take a long time. You could go to the bank and ask them to lend you money, but banks are pretty stingy about who they'll lend money to and they'll want you to pay it back with interest. 

Or, you could go to your rich buddy Frank and say, hey, you know me, you know how awesome my lemonade is, how about you give me the money to build a new stand and I'll split the profits with you even-steven? Franks says sure. 

Congratulations, Frank has just invested in your company. He became a co-owner of the company, giving you the money in the hope that he'll eventually get back even more money in profits  as your company grows. **That's investing, and it comes in two basic varieties: Buying something in the hope that it will be worth more in the future, or lending someone money and having them pay you back with interest.**

Back to the lemonade stand. Actually, it's not a lemonade stand anymore --- it's like a whole chain of stands, that are providing lemonade to 20 different beaches and 4 pools, and they're all doing super well and making money. But you and Frank, you've got bigger plans. You don't want to just build a stand here, a stand there. You want to be the biggest lemonade company in the state. Maybe the country. But for that, you're going to need a lot of money, millions, probably. 

Now you could try and find another, much, much richer Frank-type guy to invest in you. But if he's giving you millions of dollars, he's probably going to want a lot of say in how to run the company, and you and Frank don't want that, you think you're doing a pretty good job all by yourselves. Plus, there aren't that many super-rich guys out there who can just hand out millions like that; finding one and persuading him how awesome your company is might be a pain in the ass. Whereas you know tons and tons of not so rich people who love your lemonade and would be happy to own a chunk of your company. 

So how about this: Instead of dividing the ownership of Lemonade Co. into two pieces like you did with you and Frank, how about you divide it up into 20,000 pieces? You and Frank can each own 5,000 pieces, and the remaining 10,000 you can sell in small batches to anyone who wants one, for like $100 bucks a piece. Each piece represents a small share in the ownership of Lemonade Co. **Congratulations: You have created stock.**

That's all owning a share of stock is --- it's owning a small piece of a company. Now with Lemonade Co., by selling 10,000 shares you've gotten $1,000,000 in cash that you can use to invest in the business. And here's the best part: Since you have 5,000 shares, your ownership of the company is worth $500,000. 

Also, since you and Frank together each own way more of the company than any of the other investors, the two of you still get to call the shots in figuring out how to run the company. You can decide to take any profits the company makes and divide them up among the shareholders -- this is called "paying a dividend." Or, you can take those profits and use them to keep on expanding the company. 

A stock exchange is just a place where people go to buy and sell their shares in various companies. The used to be actual, physical places with a bunch of dudes running around taking orders for stock down in notebooks and a big notice board somewhere listing the price people were offering for shares in various stocks. If you wanted to buy a stock, you had to go down to the exchange, find someone who wanted to sell that stock, and see what price he wanted for his shares.

If a company does something awesome -- say Lemonade Co. invents a new raspberry flavor that's super popular --- then the price people want for a share will rise, because Lemonade Co.'s profits will be up. If something happens that's bad for a company --- a hurricane in Florida wipes out a bunch of citrus farms, meaning lemon prices will increase --- then the price of the shares will go down, because people think Lemonade Co. won't be making as much money. 

It didn't take very long before some smart bastard figured out that if you bought a stock, hung on to it until something awesome happened and the price went up, and then sold it to another investor, you could make money immediately on the rise in a stock's price without waiting around for the company itself to collect its profits and redistribute them to its shareholders. People who do this --- who buy and sell shares in the hope of making money off the changes in the share price, and not because the company itself is growing, are called traders. Investors want to buy a stock and hold it for a while; traders buy and sell tons of times per day. Traders are pretty necessary for the stock market to function well, though, because it's only when they exist that you can be sure you'll always find a buyer when you want to sell any stock you might have, or vice versa. 

And that's pretty much how the stock market works, on an ELI5 level. There's lots more to it than that, of course. Also, I should be clear --- the **stock market** is only the first type of investing, buying something in the hopes it will be worth more in the future. (There's other things you can buy besides stocks for this reason --- like Beanie Babies or Picassos or gold bars.) The second primary type of investing --- lending people money and having them pay you back with interest --- is called **the bond market**. On the whole, investing in stocks is considered riskier than investing in bonds, because there's lots of ways for a company to go wrong and stop being profitable, whereas with bonds you can pick who to lend money to and, if you're cautious, make sure to only lend to people you're 99.9999% sure will pay you back. But with bonds you're only ever going to get the 1% or 3% or 5% interest you agreed on when you bought the bond, whereas if you invest in a company that turns out to be the next Microsoft or Google your stock can be worth 10 times more than what you paid for it in a few year's time.

Question: Do the flags on the presidential limo or other state cars serve a purpose?
Answer: It means the passenger carries rank in person rather than rank in position for the country whose flag the car flies.

In practice, that usually means the head of state, chief of government, secretary of state/foreign minister, and some ambassadors. 

Immunity is subject to a bunch of different agreements between countries, but rank in person generally carries with it personal inviolability

Question: Why do we instinctively breathe using the top half of our torso when using the abdomen is apparently healthier?
Answer: It's not actually 'wrong'. You 'use' the top half of your torso because it makes space for your lungs to expand. 

'Using' your abdomen means that you are consciously focusing your breathing movements on your diaphragm, which is what actually draws your lungs in and out for you to breathe. This can be healthier because it can compress your lungs more, allowing you to push out more CO2 by emptying out your lungs more and therefore slightly increase the concentration of O2. 

Using the top half of your torso is intuitive because it allows you to intake more air if necessary (by expanding your chest, giving room for your lungs to expand), such as when exercising. 

Your body prioritizes air intake in that situation over a marginal increase in O2/decrease in CO2, because the gas ratios won't matter if you can't actually exchange the gases fast enough. It's intuitive because your body can't switch between reflexive behaviors.

Question: How do holocaust deniers back up their views when there is so much physical evidence, including eyewitnesses still alive, that it occurred?
Answer: Keep in mind; this is coming from a jew

There are very few people who deny the holocaust completely. The thing that people doubt is the scale at which it happened, and that it was specifically targeted towards jews. They don't trust the official reports, because there's no reason they couldn't have been collectively over-exaggerated to an extreme degree (which to be fair, has happened at many points in history). 

Holocaust denial isnt looking away from picture evidence with their fingers in their ears, its more a systematic distrust of government data which might or might not be propaganda. 

I just want to clarify, I do not agree with this in the slightest. I have family that was killed in the holocaust, I have heard some of the stories first hand. But I also think people's arguments should at least be represented correctly

Question: the difference between a scientist and an engineer
Answer: In general, a scientist tries to push the boundaries of our understanding of things. The engineer puts our understanding of things into practice.

As an example, a chemist might try to figure out why two substances react the way they do, while a chemical engineer will try to figure out a way to make a given substance.

Question: Why are prostate examinations done by digital penetration of the anus? Doesn't it seem archaic in the 21st century?
Answer: Believe it or not, the index finger is an extremely sensitive tool in ascertaining the size, shape, nodularity, and "sponginess" of a prostate. Physicians are specifically trained to do this.

Plus, it is fairly harmless (other than the trepidation of the patient) to insert a finger into the rectum to examine/feel the prostate. Other diagnostic modalities (scopes, radiological imaging, etc...) have much more risk of damage, take longer to do, take longer to get results, and are much more expensive.

The exam only takes about a minute (usually much less). Just take a deep breath and think about something else. It's really not that big a deal. Wait until you need a colonoscopy. LOL

Question: Why do we listen to songs that depress us when we're upset? Even though we KNOW it only makes things worse?
Answer: Does it make things worse? It's genuine psychiatric advice that sometimes you just need to feel shitty. Recognizing you're down and experience it is part of being mentally healthy, if you're always running away from unhappiness you're like to become mentally unwell.

Question: Why don't McDonald's, Burger King, KFC, etc. do deliveries in the US?
Answer: No one would tip the driver.

You work for McDonalds, you pay for your own gas/car maintenance. You walk up with a few kids meals and fries which are guaranteed to taste kinda old and soggy, this isn't a whole pizza with special delivery bag that keeps it warm, it isn't a whole meal from a Chinese restaurant, it's greasy, small portioned, tiny pickle in the middle of a sloppily ketchuped bun. You hand it over and they pay with a fiver.

Oh, yeah, they expect change. And you're running around town with no tip on low cost items that don't even cover gas. How long before you quit and deliver for Dominoes?

Question: Why does staring at the sun make me sneeze?
Answer: Because you have a photic sneeze reflex, which about 20-30% of people have. The mechanism of action is not well understood. It's possible that wires get crossed in your brain, and that the stimulus of bright light makes your brain think there's something in your nose.

Question: Why do grownups throw up less than children?
Answer: Children are dirty.  They don't wash their hands, they're constantly around a bunch of other children that don't wash their hands, they put things in their mouths and generally do everything you're not supposed to do if you want to avoid sickness.

They also have developing immune systems that haven't developed antibodies to common illnesses.

Question: What are brackets, with reference to basketball?
Answer: bracket is used to describe certain types of tournaments, not just basketball. It is the chart that lists who is playing whom, and who the winners will play. It can be filled out with predictions of who will beat whom in advance (for entertainment purposes only) or it may be filled out as the tournament progresses with the actual winners filled in.

tl;dr it is a chart of who plays whom.

Question: What happens to someone's money if they get put into an asylum or diagnosed with a serious mental illness?
Answer: If someone is found to be legally incomponent, a guardian, usually a family member, is appointed to look after their affairs.

Question: Why certain checks expire.
Answer: All checks expire. It forces people to be prompt about cashing checks. Otherwise, every company could have thousands of dollars of uncashed checks floating around, meaning they have to keep tons of extra money in their checking account just in case.

True, most wage workers aren't going to forget to cash a check, but it's certainly possible for a check to fall through the cracks somewhere, get lost, etc.

If you do lose a check for 91 days, you are still entitled to the money - you just need to tell the company that you lost the check and need ti reissued. They might be cranky with you, but they will cut a new check.

Question: Why phones can have 8 cores and sometimes more but even most high end computers half only 4 cores.
Answer: Even sub $200 processors like the i5-8400 now have 6 cores while AMD offers desktop chips with 16 cores/32 threads (on the server side you have Intel offering 28 cores with 56 threads) so part of the answer is that you simply don't know what is in desktop computers these days.

Then there is the fact that while phone processors might advertise 8 cores that doesn't mean 8 *equal* cores. A big reason for having multiple cores on phone processors is not for speed but for energy efficiency. Only the core(s) needed for a specific task are powered on while the others are asleep. This leads to specialization with only a few cores being strong general purpose ones like you might expect.

Finally there is the issue of what is practical. More cores means more heat and more cost to build. On the desktop there are usually limits on how much of that power can actually be used - most games for example show very little improvement beyond 4 cores (in fact 2 cores with 4 threads is actually the sweet spot right now before you start seeing large performance losses). 

While more cores are useful for some productivity tasks (like encoding video) many desktop users aren't taking advantage of that so a chips single thread performance has a much bigger impact on how 'fast' their computer is. This is reflected in processors like Intel's budget i3 line which boasts some extremely respectable single threaded performance but tops out at 4 cores, giving it the maximum bang for the buck for most average users.

Question: Why does mixing lights result in a different color than mixing paint?
Answer: Mixing light together is simple addition. Adding red light to green light gives you yellow light, add in blue and get white light.

Paint, on the other hand, is about absorption and reflection. Yellow paint absorbs blue light, and reflects red and green. Red paint absorbs green and blue light, and reflects red. Mix them together and you get a paint that absorbs blue light, absorbs half of green light and reflects the other half, and reflects red: orange paint.

Question: Why is it quieter to pee on the side of the toilet bowl than it is to pee directly on the toilet water
Answer: Sound waves are literally just movements of the particles that make up a medium (usually air for humans).

Situation 1: Your liquid stream hits the solid porcelain side of the bowl. There is nowhere for the force of it to go except to spread out in roughly all directions, and it barely "slices" through the air along the edge of the porcelain it's hitting, displacing air perpendicularly as it does so, and thus not moving many air particles hard enough to move other particles to cause one of those air particles to eventually hit your eardrum.

 & nbsp;

Situation 2: Your liquid stream hits the liquid surface of the water, and the force of it carries it into the water, along with a lot of air that it pulls along with it. As that air bubbles back toward the surface, it either A) reaches the surface quickly and "pops" (similar to a bubble of CO*_2_* popping at the surface of a glass of soda) OR B) hits back into the stream of liquid still coming down, which causes even more turbulence and the splitting/joining of lots of bubbles until it's a small patch of water that's almost acting like it's boiling. All of that air and water moving around displaces a *lot* more air as opposed to Situation 1, so more air particles eventually bump into your eardrum and *voila*, louder sound.

Question: Why do people still fall for pyramid schemes or MLM's?
Answer: the true answer is that they are blinded by greed. look for example at all the people who gave money to bernie madoff. Years before he was 'outed' by his son, a reporter at Barron's, a major financial paper, wrote an article questioning madoffs returns ("Those returns have been so consistent that some on the Street have begun speculating that Madoff's market-making operation subsidizes and smooths his hedge-fund returns."). Anyone who was interested could have found it. There were also other warning signs, such as big firms that would not invest with him. Yet very wealthy people, presumably with money managers, all ignored these signs. Why? Simple greed, for the most part.

[barrons article from 2001](_URL_0_) - he was arrested in 2008.   

[another link if that's paywalled, although this might be too.](_URL_1_)

Question: Please explain the current situation in the Middle East simply.
Answer: Various peoples have been fighting in that area for thousands of years. After WW2 the area was partitioned up without regard to the local's heritage and things got worse. Add lots of oil money to the equation and it's explosive.

Question: The calculation which dictates the universe is 73% dark energy 23% dark matter 4% ordinary matter.
Answer: We can see galaxies and (with the Hubble telescope) see the speed at which they rotate.  We can also calculate how much the stars in those galaxies mass.  The problem is, that much matter, spinning at those speeds, would fly apart.  Even adding in planets, dust, and black holes, there still isn't enough matter in galaxies to hold them together.  Not even nearly enough.  There shouldn't even be galaxies anymore, just scattered stars.  But there *are* still galaxies, so *something* we can't see must hold them together.  

The leading contender for that *something* is matter that doesn't interact with normal matter or energy but does create gravity like normal matter.  We call that hypothetical *something* dark matter, and we're trying to figure out what it is.  

From observing the movements of galaxies and the apparent mass they contain, we can approximate how much gravity would hold them together, and that gives us the amount of dark matter.
 
Dark energy comes from a different observation about the universe. There is a type of supernova called 1A, which is an exploding white dwarf star.  Since white dwarfs explode at a certain mass, the explosions are always about the same, and each 1A supernova is pretty much the same brightness and color spectrum as the next.  

Since they're the same brightness, we can calculate how far away they are by how faint they appear.  Since they're the same color, we can calculate how fast they're moving away from us - the faster a star moves away from us, the redder it appears- we call that its *redshift*.  (Although, regardless of the speed or direction its source is moving, light always moves at the same speed, movement toward us compresses the light's wavelength, making the light appear bluer, while movement away stretches that wavelength, making it appear redder.)

If the universe started all together and then moved apart at a constant rate, then we would expect the redshift - how fast it's moving away - to be the same for nearby galaxies as well as distant ones. But fainter (more distant) 1A supernovae aren't red enough.  Since we're seeing those distant ones as they were when the universe was very young, that tells us the universe was expanding at a slower rate back then.  And the further back in time we look, the slower expansion was at that time.

So the universe's expansion has been speeding up.  But *something* must be speeding it up.  What?  Nothing we can detect.  Since speeding up as we know it is always caused by energy, we call this undetectable something dark energy.

Calculating how much the expansion has accelerated, and how much energy it would take to do that to all those galaxies, gives us an approximation of the amount of dark energy. 


**TLDR: We get the amount of dark matter from how much extra gravity it would take to keep galaxies from flying apart.  We get the amount of dark energy from how much energy it would take to accelerate the expansion of the universe at the rate we see it happening.**

Question: Why does it matter how much water is needed to produce a kg of meat? Doesn't it all go back into the water cycle again?
Answer: Sure, it does, but 'the water cycle' doesn't just revolve around Bob's Cattle farm. The fact that Bob's water eventually makes its way back to the sea doesn't mean Bob's neighbor is going to get an equivalent amount of rain, or that the people downstream from Bob are going to drink cattle pee. 

We may not be reducing the amount of water *on the entire earth* but you can still exhaust local supply of potable water, and there's not necessarily a 1 to 1 replacement 'strategy' in place by nature. 

Local drinkable water may rely on expensive technologies to create (desalination) or exhaustible local sources (aquifers) and the like. You can definitely exhaust these without removing all the water from the water cycle.

Question: The whole "registered Republican, Democrat or Independent" thing.
Answer: When you register to vote, you can choose which political party you want to be affiliated with.  Those lists are sent to the party organizations so they can contact you, and in some states they qualify you to vote in the primary elections for those parties.  It's mostly just a convenient time to sign up for party membership, since you're already thinking about the voting system.

Republican and Democrat aren't the only choices, they're just the only choices that matter.  You can register with the Green Party or the American Communist Party or any other party that exists in your state (or not register with any party), but other parties aren't ever going to win a presidential election in the current system, so anyone that's not registered Democratic or Republican gets reported as an independent in the media.

Question: why is it when you get stabbed by a pencil it leaves a blue mark forever?
Answer: You might wanna check it, because if it is there after more than a couple of weeks it means that there is probably something stuck beneath your skin. 

It isnt dangerous by itself most of the time, but after some time it will be really hard to get out if you have to.

Question: How breast and bra sizes work
Answer: Heed my warning friend! I currently have 5 bras in my bureau. 1 is a 42B, 1 is a 36C, 1 is a 40D, 1 is a 42C, and for shits and giggles 1 is a 38DD. All of these fit me, all are comfortable, and all are different brands. Bra sizing is fucked. I can't just go to a store, find my 'allegedly' correct size, buy it,  and expect it to fit. Don't buy your lady a bra. Instead, get a gift certificate to a lingerie boutique (a nice one, not some trashy place, ya derp), give it to your lady, and eyebrows wiggling with a charming smile ask her to go shopping together on an adventure. Panties. Sploosh. Win.

Question: What would happen if the bombing of the Afghan hospital is in fact a war crime? Who would be punished, and how?
Answer: I'm thinking a lot of speeches, angry rants, and strongly worded emails and memos....and not much else, sadly.

Question: Why are some insects like cockroaches and ants afraid of humans while others like flies and moths are not?
Answer: Because you're anthropomorphising them? It's not bravery, you're just thinking about their behaviour in human terms :)

**Cockroach:** I'm nocturnal and only come out of my burrow at night. If I can see light it means someone's dug my burrow up so I better escape and hide. **Human interpretation:** Coward!

**Ants:** If some large animal is moving around I'm going to go all crazy and run around biting things TO PROTECT THE QUEEN.  **Human interpretation:** Berserker.

**Flies:** I'm active during the day and I can react so fast I can easily get out of the way of something trying to eat me. **Human interpretation:** Brave!

**Moths:** I'm camouflaged, if I don't move they can't see me. **Human interpretation:** Brave!

(Edit: Added a smiley as people are reading it in a negative tone)

Question: Why do tea bags say ‘Do Not Microwave’?
Answer: Because you are doing it wrong!

You are supposed to put tea into boiling water all at once, not slowly heat it up with the water.  It does taste different that way.

EDIT:  To be clear, you don't put tea in water while it is still boiling, you bring the water to a boil, let it cool a bit, then put it in.

Question: Does the Surface Tension of Water change (increase/decrease), as the surface area changes?
Answer: No but the ratio of the effects of surface area can change as the volume increases. 

Temperature does affect surface tension. Surface tension is a result of molecules of water forming stronger bonds with other water molecules than with air. Therefore, breaking the surface of the water requires breaking some of those bonds. The bonds between water molecules are weaker when the water molecules move around really fast and spend less time bonded - as in hot water. Once water is boiling, all of the heat energy goes to breaking the water bonds and the surface tension is zero.

Question: How are tracking numbers created and how long will it be until UPS, FedEx and USPS run out?
Answer: Tracking numbers are randomized numbers and letters, typically in a HexDec system that allows for 16 character numbers, and are typically like in UPS's case, 18 characters long following the 2 character preamble.. This equates to a combination that is as follows:

18^18 = DAMN! or 39,346,408,075,296,537,575,424. That alone give you so many different numbers, that it is impossible to run out of tracking numbers. 

For USPS, they use a 20 digit Number system with the first 4 numbers predesignated.

so 4 + 10^18 = 1000000000000000004. That is exactly 1 Sextillion combinations.

Tl;DR; we can track everything.

edit for the UPS snob at the bottom.

Question: Does Space Smell Like Anything?
Answer: apparently space *does* have a distinctive smell, it has been described as being similar to seared steak, hot metal, and welding fumes.

 > It is hard to describe this smell; it is definitely not the olfactory equivalent to describing the palette sensations of some new food as "tastes like chicken." The best description I can come up with is metallic; a rather pleasant sweet metallic sensation. It reminded me of my college summers where I labored for many hours with an arc welding torch repairing heavy equipment for a small logging outfit. It reminded me of pleasant sweet smelling welding fumes. That is the smell of space.

[here](_URL_0_) is an article where some astronauts discuss the phenomenon

Question: Why does a candle make smoke when blown out but not when it's lit?
Answer: The smoke you see is the vaporized wax that is the actual fuel of the candle's flame.

Question: How does magnetic shielding work?
Answer: A property of magnetism is that it can bend electric fields.  So, magnetic shield is used to bend electric fields in such a way that they are largely contained, instead of allowed to propagate freely and potentially cause interference.

Question: the shower water is sometimes too hot and sometimes never hot enough. I don't share a hot water heater.  Why is the temperature inconsistent?
Answer: if you're only using one handle to dial in the temp you may just have variations due to pressure.  in my experience, the higher the water pressure, the more the cold water.  since both cold water and hot water are combining in the shower head, the cold might be displacing the hot.  if you reduce the pressure (don't put it on "full blast") you may get more hot water /at least, that's been the case for me.

Question: What happens to your body when you get winded?
Answer: You know how walking uphill is harder than walking downhill? Or, how it's more difficult to stretch a spring, and it snaps back to place on its own? For the same reasons, inhaling is more difficult than exhaling. Not so difficult that it requires a lot of effort, but a part of the equation is that empty lungs is your breathing cycles neutral mode.

The larger part of the equation is you need to understand what happens when you hold your breath. You know the burning feeling that is telling you to breathe? It's not as much that your body is oxygen-starved, but that it is desperate to expel the carbon dioxide accumulating in your lungs.

People get winded because a sudden jolt to the body empties the lungs very quickly. It's a spooky feeling because you stop breathing, but you don't feel like you are suffocating (no oxygen in your lungs means that carbon dioxide isn't building-up). To begin the breathing cycle again, you need to inhale forcefully because your diaphram (the muscles that make your lungs inflate and deflate) is quite content to sit empty. Your normal inhale isn't enough. A person recognizes they aren't breathing, get alarmed, and it's only when they gasp, or start to panic and suck-in hard, that the cycles starts again. It's confusing and jarring.

Question: Why couldn't I rob a bank, serve my jail time, then just have all the money to spend?
Answer: Judges always file a restitution order. Which means you are required to pay back what you stole.

Question: Why do we shelter kids from what the real world is like instead of teaching them the reality of it?
Answer: Because life in reality is extremely complicated. Children's ability to comprehend the world around them is something that develops gradually as they age. So we simplify things greatly at first and gradually expose the child to the real world more and more as they become more capable of understanding it.

Question: What's the difference between semiotics and structuralism?
Answer: Easy version: Semiotics is the study of signs and signifiers. Structuralism is a critical framework built on a particular theory of semiotics.

Question: Why isn't a dimensionless number negligible in a calculation if it theoretically has no physical properties
Answer: The numbers don't have to have a physical correspondence to nevertheless reflect physical reality. 

Pi is not negligible, it's a derived ratio. It's required to make the math work. It represents a relationship between certain quantities. That's the whole point of these constants - they were determined based on  relationships we understand, and using them is fundamental to making the numbers some out correctly.

Question: Why is it sometimes easier to remember a word in one's second language?
Answer: As someone bilingual, I'd say that sometimes some words more accurately represent what you're trying to say in one language than the other. More accurate!

Question: Why does a video on YouTube take so much longer to load than a porn video that's 4 times as long?
Answer: The porn company knows you're not gonna last the extra 5 seconds it takes a video to load.

Question: What's causing the global markets to drop so rapidly?
Answer: directly? people wanting to sell their assets

and reasons for that are plenty: economical situation, evaluation of different assets, wars, trust and many other different things

Question: Why dogs thump their feet when they enjoy getting scratched.
Answer: it's an involuntary reaction. Kinda like your own patellar reflex (as in when you get tapped on the knee and your leg kicks. 

It's called the scratch reflex, when something irritates the skin in that area the dog just tries to scratch it. The thought is that it developed as a way to help counter insects and other irritation.

Fun fact, vets actually use it to diagnose nerve issues, just like your doctor will see if your leg kicks.

Question: When a scammer gives me the account number to transfer funds, why can't we just notify the police and have them arrested?
Answer: Aside from the fact that you have no proof (unless you record all your phone calls, which is a whole set of legal rules in and of itself), they are often in other countries. You're asking for international law enforcement cooperation (often between countries with little framework for such cooperation) on no solid evidence for a crime that any fool can commit.

Question: Why are there so many sub genres of music that are never heard of or talked about?
Answer: Everything ever has way more depth than you would expect. There's enthusiasts for everything that can talk for hours about a small aspect that you never gave a second thought to. Like favorite text editor, wine vintage, or metallurgic composition of a knife.

Question: According to people who blame the Jews for killing Jesus--why do they even think that Jesus' death was a bad thing?
Answer: Because it's an easy justification for being mean to the Jews, which was "in vogue" for about two millennia.

Anyway, it isn't really that they *killed* Jesus, it's that they rejected his teachings. As you may or may not know, Jesus was targeted by a group of Jewish religious leaders for spreading what they considered blasphemy, and they turned him over to Pontius Pilate who decided to execute him (they told him Jesus was plotting against Rome, which was total bullshit).

The big issue that some Christians have with that is the "considering Jesus's teachings blasphemy" part. If you believe that Christ is the Messiah and Son of God, someone else calling Christ's teachings blasphemy is blasphemous itself, in a weird circular way.

Question: If Girl Scout Cookies were created as a fundraising tool why are they only sold in a really small window of time each year?
Answer: If its only available in short supply/period of time, you get to jack up the price, making it very cost effective.

Question: How often has obesity genetical factors, and how easy it it to battle it?
Answer: Genetics determine where you store fat and have some say in how prone you are to compulsive eating, but ultimately the base metabolic rates are about the same for each person.

If you eat less than you burn, you'll lose weight.  Genetics cannot defy basic thermodynamics.

Consider that the obesity rates have skyrocketed in the last few decades.  If it was genetic that would imply that a "fat gene" appeared and spread through the entire population in just a single generation, which isn't possible.

Question: How does the "one country, two systems" method of goverance work between Hong Kong and China? Are citizens of Hong Kong also technically citizens of China?
Answer: People from Hong Kong are not just "technically" citizens of China--Hong Kong is now considered an integral part of the territory of China. However, the Chinese government has committed to granting Hong Kong autonomy for at least fifty years, meaning that the local government has more power than other local governments and Hong Kong does not have to follow the strict economic laws the other parts of the country do.

Question: Why airline tickets in the US are so damn expensive?
Answer: That's funny. Here in Canada we think of the US as a cheap country for flying.  One member of parliament once pointed out that it was cheaper sometimes for him to fly from his home in BC to Singapore than to fly to his workplace in Ottawa.

Question: How do I determine order of atoms
Answer: I believe we put the less electronegative agents first, followed by the more electronegative ones.

Electronegativity is an atom's tendency (or a functional group's tendency) to attract electrons.  So for single atoms, the farther to the right they are, and the higher up, the more electronegative (ignoring the noble gases).  Oxygen and fluorine are the most electronegative, while atoms like carbon, with four valence electrons, aren't especially eager to give or take electrons.

Question: What is existentialism?
Answer: In a few words, the belief that everything is inherently meaningless, and any semblance of significance is entirely subjective and derived by the individual experiencing it.

Example: We're alone in the universe (which will some day fold in on itself and invalidate the entirety of human achievement), we're going to die someday (before immortality is discovered, and even the greatest among us will be little more than a name mostly uttered out of context) and none of us can ever truly be sure someone feels the way we do or loves us like we love them.

But right now, I'm watching my cat do stupid shit and it's making me laugh, so I've got that going for me, which is nice...

**TL;DR:** Life is entirely what you make it.

**EDIT:** Realized I may have lost my initial point in my meandering prose. What I was getting at is, despite all evidence that life may have no actual meaning, existentialism dictates you can find that meaning anywhere, simply by appreciating the experiences existence has to offer (hence, the name).

So, life is basically meaningless. But thanks to my cat's silly antics, I had to pause, reflect, shamelessly lift a Kurt Vonnegut quote and think "If this isn't nice, I don't know what is." And in finding joy in a mundane moment, I've manufactured my own meaning from out of the darkness.

Question: If I was driving at 100km/h and crashed into a car in front that was going 90km/h, would the impact be equal to crashing into something stationary at 10km/h?
Answer: Yes, the initial impact would be like 10km/h.

However, if the initial impact causes loss of control (which it might, depending on the exact nature of the impact), the following impact with the scenery will *not* be like 10km/h!

Question: Why are there different research funding organizations for different types of cancer?
Answer: We know the root cause of cancer, cells that multiply uncontrollably due to some sort of mutation or defect. Each type of cancer requires different methods to treat however due to the nature of the type of cell infected.

Question: Considering all the different elements of sound, how is audio translated into binary so that a computer can understand what it's processing?
Answer: As complex as sound.. uh.. *sounds*, really your ear drum is interpreting all those various sounds into one wave form. That is because you have one ear drum in each year, and it has only so many dimensions. It's really a matter of how much pressure, and how fast, the ear drum is vibrating.  

When we first started studying sound, we literally just looked at how our ear drums vibrated, and replicated that with analogue technology. It's just a wave, up and down. 

So with computers, the binary is just representing that *single* wave. There are a LOT of ways of describing this in binary, depending on how much *fidelity* you want to the actual wave form. Basically, the binary representation will describe in a certain time interval where the wave goes. It goes up, it goes down, it stays flat.

So basically /  -  \ 

That's just three little symbols that can represent all of sound.

Question: Why is fish (or sea food) so much softer than mammal meat?
Answer: Basically fish have less collagen that attaches muscle to bone because fish don't need the skeleton to support them because they swim in the water every day. Also their muscle fibers are shorter that's why when you eat fully cooked fish you notice the pieces fall apart in consistent chunks.

Question: Why does my skin feel so sensitive and why do my muscles ache when I have a cold?
Answer: One of the main reasons that your body aches when you are sick, like with a cold is that your body's immmune system is producing plenty of anti-bodies.
These anti-bodies also produce histamines which typically dilates (widens) blood vessel near an infection, this allows for more of the body's defences to get at the infection.  There are histamine receptors in blood vessels that cause them to dilate. As these chemicals are released into your blood stream they can end up in your muscles or other body parts. Various body systems can have receptors to histamine that can then trigger a pain receptor. 
In addition to histamines there are biochemicals called cytokines  that are released when the body has an immune response that are also known to trigger a  biochemical pathway that can affect pain receptors. 

TL;DR The body's immune system sometimes trigger pain receptors or make them more sensitive when they release histamines.

Question: If cracking your knuckles is pockets of air escaping, how does the air get in and where does it go?
Answer: It doesn't go anywhere. When you crack your knuckles you stretch out the sacks of fluid that act as cushions but they don't break. Stretching them creates a vacuum inside which pulls any dissolved gasses out. That's the cracking sound, the bubbles just stay inside that sack and eventually dissolve back into the fluid.

Question: Why is blackmail illegal?
Answer: its coercion or extortion involving a threat of harm or slander.

youre basically demanding money under threat of harm.

Question: How is disney not a monopoly?
Answer: To be a monopoly, you have to control all (or nearly all) of the commerce in your given market.  Microsoft was thought to be a monopoly in the past because they controlled ~95% of the PC OS market.

Disney is in the entertainment market.  Even after the merger, they won't even control 50% of that market, much less the  > 75% you really need to have a serious discussion about a company being a monopoly.

Question: Why do flies and gnats consistently bother the same person even after being shooed away?
Answer: They're attracted to the smell, or the color, or maybe they're just jerks.

Question: Who creates the, I assume mostly not real, computer programs we see characters using in films and are they actually functional?
Answer: I would guess it's just added post production via a cgi program.  No reason to write a fake program when all you need is something to just look like a program sense nobody has to use it outside of a scripted scene

Question: If our skin cells are constantly dying and being replaced how do tattoos remain on our skin forever?
Answer: >  If our skin cells are constantly dying and being replaced how do tattoos remain on our skin forever?

The ink is injected *below* the skin that is constantly being sloughed off.

Question: What does it mean it mean to be "in shape" physically, and what does my body actually do if I'm in shape?
Answer: "In shape" is just another way of saying that you exercise with some regularity and your diet is good; you're not obese.

Being too much or too less of anything is detrimental to your health, and being in shape is that balance for someone where they are not obese and scoffing down processed foods 24/7, and it provides your body with loads of good stuff like increased lung capacity, low blood pressure, etc all of the stuff they tell you why you need to exercise.

Being "in shape" has no universal standard. For example, I rarely go to the gym, and my primary form of exercise comes from jogging every morning and simply being on my feet for hours every day. (NYC life FTW). My diet is mainly light foods like fruits/vegetables though I eat a bit of steaks/protein a lot as well. So for me, I consider myself "in shape" because I'm not "fat", I can run a few miles easily, and I eat right for the most part.

Someone else might require something different altogether though.

Question: Do alcohol, tobacco, caffeine fit in 'receptors'?
Answer: Yes and no, it depends on the drug. Some are structural analogs to neurotransmitters (like nicotine) and some act on neurons and stimulate/inhibit release of neurotransmitters or their binding to receptors (like alcohol)

For example, nicotine (the active ingredient of tobacco) is a structural analog (similar chemical structure) of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine and binds nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (you can see where the name of the receptor came from) in the central nervous system. 

Alcohol, on the other hand, binds to GABA receptors in the central nervous system and increases its binding strength to the neurotransmitter GABA. So while it's not a structural analog, it does increase GABA activity. 

Caffeine is a receptor blocker for the adenosine receptor in the central nervous system. Adenosine makes you sleepy, so caffeine blocks this and delays the sleepiness. However, keep in mind that adenosine is still accumulating, so once the caffeine is metabolized, the adenosine kicks in and you get sleepy again. 

Every drug works slightly differently, so if you want to know more, I recommend taking a pharmacology class.

Question: Crowd gps
Answer: Crowd GPS apps are different in that they give your more real-time information such as obstructions in the road, red cam lights. All the added real-time information is gathered through different people who use that app. Functioning as a self sustaining community, people update the public map with new information wherever they are. Others can vote on whether this info is accurate or not in. The more people that apply to that "community" the more accurate and timely that info is.

Question: Would we have to brush our teeth if we consumed no sugar?
Answer: Yes, you would want to remove acids as well, as they also cause tooth problems. Brushing your teeth can also help remove pieces of food stuck in your teeth, which would otherwise rot. This is an area where flossing is helpful as well, which you should also do everyday.

Question: Why do people say "What is -----" on jeopardy
Answer: The guy who invented jeopardy was on the daily show once, and he explained it as follows.

He said that jeopardy was one of the first attempts to have a real quiz show after the big quiz show scandals earlier in the 20th century.  Those involved shows were the producers would give one of the contestants the answers in advance, to guarantee "interesting" winners. 

When he was trying to pitch jeopardy, TV executives were still wary of these kinds of scandals---not that they thought jeopardy would involve cheating, but that people wouldn't watch trivia because they'd assume it was rigged---and so he came up with the idea of "answering in the form of a question."  It allowed them to do gimmicky ads saying that you didn't have to worry about cheating because *everyone* got the answer already (in the clue on the board), and they weren't looking for answers, they were looking for questions.

Question: Why do some people (like me) get really squirmish about things like Veins, the inner mechanics of Reproductive organs or blood and injections, etc ?
Answer: It sounds like you might be experiencing a vasovagal syncope, which is the mechanism that causes people to faint at the sight of blood. You get this because you are a wimp.

No, actually this happens because of a nervous system malfunction. Rather than activating the sympathetic nervous system which would be the "fight-or-flight" response, it activates the parasympathetic nervous system which is the "rest-and-digest" response. Rather than getting amped up for a hand to hand fight to the death you are more likely to poo your pants and cry. And weirdly, get an erection.

Shitting oneself isn't a terrible evolutionary response to danger per se; deer do it all the time, as apparently do opossum (the "play dead" thing is only part of it, as if you catch them in a cage be prepared for grassy diarrhea all over). Of course this probably isn't very comforting but that is probably why it happens to you.

Question: Why did the english language rename other countries? Ex german=duetsch
Answer: Countries didn't always have the same borders as they do today and so some names come from the names of the people who lived there way back when and have become corrupted in different ways over time. Example: the Franca people led to the name France and Francaise. Different rules in different languages can explain how the descriptor for the people can be different (French/Français).  

Germany particularly formed comparatively recently and was a lot more of a mish-mash of tribes than other countries. There were Germanic tribes (hence Germany in English, from the Latin), Teutonic tribes (hence Teutonic also being a descriptor for being German), the Allemains (hence Germany being called Allemagne in France) and so on.  

Back in a sec when I've Googled something...  

Edit: Just wanted to check a spelling before I typed it. Some people living in that area just called themselves the *Diutisc*. Not a specific tribe but just means something like 'the people' and they used it to describe themselves as compared to others in the same way the Romans just used 'barbarian' for any scruffy foreigner. So that'd where Deutschland comes from, and obviously the word Dutch to describe something from Holland/Netherlands.

Question: Why when you breathe out with an open mouth is the air warm, but if you purse your lips then the air is cold?
Answer: Its not cooler air, it just mixes with the surrounding air faster. Add that to the fact you are probably blowing onto your sweaty fingers or palm, the evaporation of the sweat makes you feel like its cooler.

Question: The rise, fall, and importance of the Byzantine Empire.
Answer: Since the Roman empire had lots of trouble - civil wars, plagues, barbarian invasions - it was divided into two parts, because it would have been impossible to administrate otherwise. 

After the western part collapsed and Rome was looted by barbarians, only the east part remained. Since the only remainder of Rome now had mostly Greeks living in it, they switched their language to Greek and Capital to Constantinople. They still called themselves Romans, but since the new empire was pretty different from the old modern historians named it the Byzantine empire instead for convenience. 

For a while, the Byzantine empire did really well, and thanks to an [awesome general](_URL_0_) managed to retake Italy and Africa from the barbarians. The success wasn't long-lived though, and due to plagues, civil wars and shitty emperors they lost a lot of territory to the Seljuk Turks.

Then came the [fourth crusade](_URL_1_), which got itself indebted to Venice because they couldn't pay for the boats made for them (seriosuly). So instead of going to Jerusalem, they had to become mercenaries for Venice instead, sailing to Constantinople and sacking the city. The Byzantines never really recovered from it, and the Turks proceeded to siege and capture Constantinople in 1453, which finally ended the empire. (unless you count the pope crowning Charlemagne roman emperor in y. 800, which would mean the roman empire 'officially' fell in 1835, when Napoleon forced [this guy](_URL_2_) to abdicate.)

Question: why toasted bread tastes different than regular bread
Answer: No. When you heat bread, chemical reactions take place on the surface of the bread that fundamentally change it. See the recent question about the Maillard reaction for a little more, if you want.

Question: Why is it that I see so many surfing videos that show surfers sitting out in the water with no waves?
Answer: Often we wait behind the waves to prepare, find a good wave or take a break.   Then you move up and "drop into" the wave.   Waves may come in sets of three for example and you want to ride the best one so you wait.  Sometimes you wait a bit.

Question: Why is steam formed in a shower at 50 degrees Celsius?
Answer: Most people refer to visible water vapor as "steam," but technically it's not steam. Steam, by definition, is the gaseous state of water (over 100 degrees Celsius at normal atmospheric pressues). When steam is released into air which is at normal temperatures, some of it condenses into the clouds which we CALL "steam" but that is still condensed water vapor, and not really steam. What you're seeing in the shower is just very fine water droplets condensing in the air.

Question: Why are oil prices plummeting? What is OPEC and why are they not cutting production?
Answer: There are a lot of reasons why oil prices have dropped recently. One major one is a recession in places like China, and a surplus of extracted oil. OPEC is the organization of petroleum exporting countries. OPEC is group of a bunch of countries that work together to coordinate oil production. Why opec isn't simply cutting production as they've done in the past is because a) that wouldn't really help these countries at this point 
b) another cause of the drop in oil is increase in production in the us and specifically by fracking which is cheaper than conventional methods of drilling, because of this increased use of American oil, opec cutting production would not effect this oil.

Question: How is glass made?
Answer: When sand is melted you get a hot liquid substance, then you can form it into shapes with special tools and when it cools you are left with glass.

Question: How exactly does my neighbors property effect my property value?
Answer: property value is just a guess at what an average consumer will be willing to pay. If you have a nice house, but it's surrounded by meth labs, no one will want to pay very much to buy it.

Question: Why is it that so many people remember how blue the sky was on 9/11?
Answer: The contrast was striking - over and over again, all day long, I remember people remarking on it - this massive and horrible event, on such an especially beautiful day.

And certainly in NYC, most of us didn't go to or stay at work all day, either, so that may also contribute to our noting and remembering what a "nice" day it was outside.

Question: Why isn't "quantitative easing" money just given directly to taxpayers?
Answer: The Fed isn't there for the sake of taxpayers. It's there for the sake of banks and that kind of guy.

Question: Why are unhealthy foods seemingly always less expensive than healthier alternatives?
Answer: Less than 1% of federal subsidies go towards fruits and vegetable. With 63% going to meat and dairy and 20% to grains, which is mostly used to feed livestock. Hence, the true market price of unhealthy food are artificially suppressed by federal subsidies.

source: [_URL_0_](_URL_0_)

Question: Shakespeare's genius
Answer: Nobody popularized memes like Shakespeare, ever, in history. Think of all the little words and phrases you have made up... does anyone else use them? Does everyone one else use them? [HERE IS A PARTIAL LIST](_URL_0_) of words and phrases that have no record of appearing before Shakespeare used them. And they left out "eyeball". Yep, Shakespeare has the first known use of the word "eyeball"

Question: How the IRS would tax the winner of the power ball for the foreseeable future
Answer: If you took it as a lump-sum prize they would tax you 350-400 mil as you say, but after that you wouldn't be taxed on it as income anymore because its already been taxed. It is not "income" just because you still have it next year, the only way it would continue to be taxed is if you invested it you would be taxed on capital gains (so technically it isn't even the prize money being taxed, just the money you GAIN)

Question: How does the mouth deal with things hot enough to burn most other parts of the body?
Answer: If it's hot enough to burn other parts of the body, it'll burn your mouth, too. In fact it'll probably burn your mouth easier than other parts of the body.

Question: Why is bathroom water so much better than kitchen water?
Answer: Clearly because you are a dog.

Really tho..."Most people like to drink water that is very cold. In the bathroom, the water is often very cold because the person getting a drink first uses the water closet (toilet) and flushes. This starts the flow of cold water. Then they wash their hands, which continues to flow the cold water. By the time they take a drink, the water is nice and cold. This fools the brain into thinking it tastes better."

Kitchen water on the other hand is often left sitting in you pipes for long periods of time. Which is often why people open the tap and let it run for a few minutes before getting water. The colder the water the better the brain thinks it tastes.

Question: Why is allergy medicine so expensive?
Answer: A lot of the newer allergy drugs have a narrower focus than previous generations of allergy drugs.  Benadryl is an antihistamine, but it affects the whole body system much more than more modern drugs.  Drugs like Afrin can clear congestion, but at the expense of elevated blood pressure and tolerance buildup.  Its effects go beyond relieving the targeted symptom. The newer medicines take a lot of research to find the specific molecules that will fit into the specific receptors in order to block an allergen from filling the receptor and causing an immune response.  The newer medicines try to have a targeted approach for the symptom they are taken to alleviate.  A lot of allergy treatment medicines are forms of steroids.  The amount is small, but it can help the body lessen its reaction to allergens like dust and pollen.  If one takes stronger steroids, it ends up causing damage.  That is why many of the drugs do not go over-the counter, because there are risks that need medical monitoring, above and beyond the common drugs found on store shelves.  Many allergy medicines today are truly better than the ones of 20 years ago.

Question: It seems that when devastating disasters happen in North America, less than a hundred are killed, but how come in countries in the Middle East, Asia and the Far East suffer far more casualties for similar disasters?
Answer: that's easy, it comes down to primarily two things:

- Money

- the number of people living there (population density)

While the US are huge, they're not as densely populated as other areas, especially in Asia or the Middle East. In Texas you got an average of 40 people per square kilometer (or roughly 100 per square mile). The worlds average is about 60 (thats including the deserts, greenland, etc). Pakistan for example has a density of about 250 people per square kilometer.

And then, more money means better houses, better infrastructure, better governments with better (and better enforced) safety regulations when it comes to building/maintaining stuff. It means having the option to leave an endangered area and go somewhere else, etc.

Question: Why is -3 not an applicable square root of 9?
Answer: The square root of 9 is ±3.

The principal square root of 9 is 3.

Usually you use the things that make sense. I don't understand your problem, but usually when solving problems like 

x^2 = 9

you write that 

|x| = 3

x = -3,3.

This problem has 2 roots. Both of them satisfy the equation x^2 = 9.

Question: Why is water transport so inefficient? Why can a mid-level car easily reach 200+kph, while you need a 1000+hp offshore boat to reach the same speed?
Answer: Essentially friction and surface area. I'm no expert but look how much of a boat/ship is actually making contact with the water, now look at how much surface area your tires on your car take up, a hell of a lot less.

I'm not a smart man but there's my two cents. I'm sure someone will explain it better.

Question: Why is longitude measured in non-parallel lines coming from the poles instead of in parallel circles emanating from the Prime Meridian and IDL?
Answer: One of these ways is really easy and convenient for plotting a map and navigating. The other is really, really, really annoying. If you plotted the parallel circles on a flat map, you would get two sets of either concentric ellipses or circles depending on the projection you use, and you couldn't keep your East/West coordinates fixed if you traveled due North/South.

Question: Why does food turn black when it burns?
Answer: Burning could also be called carbonising. I'm sure there's someone who can explain better than me, but burning food is the exact same as burning a lump of wood. Burning is a chemical reaction called combustion, and I can't remember any exact formulas but it uses oxygen, along with the organic compounds in the wood or food (generally composed of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen with some other fun things in there). One of the by products of the reaction is carbon dioxide which is just released into the air, and another is solid carbon, which is the black stuff left behind. Sorry if this answer is a bit long but basically;

TLDR: it goes black because the combustion reaction uses up most of the other parts of the compounds in the food, and what's left is solid carbon which is black.

Edit: as a few people have pointed out, it is incomplete combustion that produces solid carbon, which is the result of imperfect combustion conditions, for example not enough oxygen available for the reaction.

Question: Why are beef hotdogs not brown?
Answer: Hotdogs contain sodium nitrate as part of their curing process. Nitrates make meat pink. In fact besides hot dogs they are the reason why corned beef is the color it is, and are commonly found in things like bacon, sausages, and other 'cured' meats.

Question: Slow charge vs fast charge overnight
Answer: It doesn't matter. It automatically regulates power supply to prevent anything from damaging the battery; for instance, when the phone reaches 100% it stops charging, and only starts charging when it falls below like 98%-95%.

Question: How Long Will The Worlds Population Continue To Increase?
Answer: **TL;DR - about 30 years.**

Populations in most of Asia are stagnating.  India is leveling out.  Japan and most of Europe have *declining* populations.  The US is leveling out.  The only place left on Earth to experience a population boom is Africa.

Scientists have predicted that Earth's population will plateau at about 9.5 bil.  Earth is capable of supporting that many.  It will be a little tight, but we'll be fine.

Question: How can flight with a layover in Prague, be cheaper than booking a direct flight to Prague?
Answer: Airline prices are generally based solely off the origin and destination, and not anywhere in between.

Pricing is a function of demand and competition. If there is high demand and little competition on flights from your city to Prague, prices will be high. If there is low demand and lots of competition from your city to Moscow, prices will be low, even if you have to stop in Prague.

It's called [hidden city ticketing](_URL_0_), and if you read the fine print when you book a flight, it's not allowed. For example, if you book a flight from London-Prague-Moscow because it's cheaper than London-Prague (where you really want to go), you're not allowed to leave the airport and stay in Prague. Well, you can, if you only have carry on bags, because your checked luggage is going to Moscow. And once you miss the Prague-Moscow flight, the rest of the itinerary is canceled so hope you didn't plan on getting back to London. If you're flying one way and aren't checking luggage, you can get away with it, with one huge caveat: If you book London-Prague-Moscow, the airline's obligation is to get you from London to Moscow. They're well within their rights to reroute you through another city if there's bad weather in Prague or the London-Prague plane has a mechanical issue. For example, they might change it to London-Munich-Moscow, but you wanted to go to Prague. Oops. You're SOL.

Question: Why does protesting work? You see massive nationwide protests when there is civil unrest, but why can't the government just ignore it until the protestors give up?
Answer: Protesting isn't about getting the government or entity you are protesting to change because of the protesters. They will always be dismissed as a minority opinion and troublemakers. It is about getting a larger group of constituents (the ones who would never actually go to the protest) interested with the issue.  It is about attention and media coverage and creating a groundswell.  You hope by having 100 people show up you get 5000 to write their congressman.  You hope by staying in place for a month that you get 50,000 to care.  In short you hope to influence a larger group, create pressure.

Question: Why can't computer screens alter images for visually impaired people (glasses) to be clear?
Answer: Think about it this way.  A normal person's eyes are like a funnel.  Anything that gets poured into the funnel comes out in a tight stream.  Someone with very bad eyesight has eyes like a colander.  Even if you pour the exact same thing into the colander, you end up with a mess of random crap coming out the bottom.

Glasses work by basically putting a funnel inside the colander so everything comes out one hole in the center.  It redirects everything into that hole.

Could you pour things into a colander in such a way that it would come out as a stream, i.e. straight down one of the holes?  Theoretically, but it would be very difficult and it would have to be adjusted depending on the type of colander, its size, its location, etc.  If you move it even half an inch, the stream you're pouring into it hits the metal near the hole.  

So essentially the only way to make this work would be to fine tune the image *extremely* specifically, at which point it would only work for one person in one location.  You'd have to have your head bolted to your chair to prevent tiny head movements from ruining it.

Question: What happens to the pieces of a sliver that break off and can't be removed and therefore stay under my skin?
Answer: Usually they work to the surface over time as new layers of skin grow from beneath. The human body is pretty amazing at ridding itself of foreign bodies.

Question: Why are cats (and other animals) noses wet?
Answer: Because they often lick their noses. Think about how it smells when it rains. It's a pretty strong, distinct smell, isn't it? It isn't the smell of the rain that's sticking out - it's everything else. Moisture makes it easier to smell things we normally would have missed.

With dogs and cats, it's the same exact thing (I believe). They keep their noses moist because a wet nose fine-tunes their ability to smell.

Question: Asthma
Answer: Some illnesses make you sick for a long time, like cancers and HIV.  Some illnesses make you sick for a short time and then they go away, like a cold or a tummy bug.

Asthma is an in between illness.  You have it all the time, but it only makes you sick some of the time, as others have explained.  It's like an nut allergy, you're always allergic, but you're only sick if you eat nuts.

At the moment, we can give asthma sufferers treatment if they are sick, but we can't cure the whole illness.  The sometimes aspect of asthma (and allergies and other "in between" illnesses) makes it harder to come up with a reasonable cure because all medicines have side effects.  If the illness is only making you sick some of the time, most people would not want to have the side effects all of the time.  Plus, sometimes the side effects are worse than the illness you're trying to treat.

Also, we can cure (treat until it goes away) something like an infection because that's caused by something outside the body.  When all the bacteria are gone, the sickness is gone.  Asthma comes from inside the body, there's not something we can just take away to make the person feel better.

Question: Why did everyone get upset when the Pope called it The Armenian "Genocide"?
Answer: Because the Turks deny anything happened.  2 million Armenians just got "lost" in the shuffle after ww1/collapse of the Ottoman Empire

Most everyone else isn't buying that story

Question: How does water get stuck in your ear?
Answer: Am I going crazy? OP asked why it happens and everyone is giving old wives tales about how to get the water out. One guy just went on a rant about not using Q-tips

Anyway, to actually answer the question, it has to do with cohesion, aka surface tension. Little water droplets basically get into the small spaces on your ear, and are held in by the surface tension that holds the droplets together.

Question: how do fashion designers gain fame when they start out
Answer: You know how people always laugh at those really outlandish outfits at fashion shows that nobody would ever wear? That's how fashion designers get famous. They make unbelievable, over the top outfits to grab attention, then once they have it they use their renown to sell things people actually wear like jeans or t-shirts.

Question: Why are coffee tables so low?
Answer: Most coffee tables are level with the sitting height of a couch or love seat. They are at a perfect height for resting your feet on them when your wife isn't home.

Question: If our brains use 50-70% of our total energy, will keeping it active result in fat loss/staying leaner?
Answer: Those are excessively high percentages, but yes there is some indication that tasking the brain will burn more energy.

Question: How do apps like WhatsApp and Snapchat work?
Answer: Yes, they need to have a central server.

There are various technical reasons why phones can't communicate directly with each other - but the most obvious is that there needs to be a way of storing the message if the receiving phone is switched off.

In WhatsApp, when you send a message, it displays one tick below the message to show its been received by the server, and a second tick to show its been received by the receiving phone.

Question: why do some people not 'know' how to swim and drown?
Answer: Humans are born with the instinct to swim, or at least stay afloat.  It's lost after time.  If it isn't taught to them or kept in their mind, they forget how to.

Not to get all preachy, but some people simply don't teach their children how to swim.  They then grow up not teaching their kids how to swim, or purposely keeping them from swimming because *they're* afraid.

I think you're discounting how much effort went into teaching you how to swim from adults.

Question: Why did this weekends reddit super story lose up votes over time?
Answer: I think people are starting to question the validity of the story. The live stream from the PI got a lot of people calling bullshit

Question: when did it become gramatically acceptable to put the dollar sign after the numeric as in "10$"?
Answer: I've never seen that before. Where are you seeing it?

Question: What was the possible cause of the dancing plague ,and considering the fact that this disease was referred to as a "mania", was it a physical or mental disorder?
Answer: Modern theories include (1) group poisoning with a naturally occurring chemical that can grow in rotting grain, (2) mass hysteria caused by recent problems in the area that had people afraid of starvation, and (3) encouragement from the authorities who strangely thought that encouraging it would stop it.

Question: how did man figure out Wells?
Answer: It was just something that was learned over time.

Someone found a spring. Then water stopped coming out of the spring. Someone then dug a little big to gind out where the water went and the spring started back up. After this happens a few times someone figured out to dig in the ground to find water.

Question: What considerations are taken into account when an establishment decides to sign with Coca-Cola vs. Pepsi for an exclusive supplier contract?
Answer: Generally three things:

1) Which drinks are more popular in that area, Coke (Coca-Cola, Sprite, etc) or Pepsi (Pepsi, Mountain Dew, etc)?

2) Are there any nearby restaurants that have an exclusive agreement with one company or the other within a certain range? (This is rare; nether company has much interest in stopping *anyone* from buying their syrup.)

3) If the restaurant has a parent company, they may have an overall deal with one of the companies that pretty much mandates their outlets sell that company's product. (For example, pretty much all McDonald's and Burger Kings sell Coke products.)

Question: Why are some traditional last names of certain descents (Indian, Greek, etc.) so long?
Answer: might wanna give some examples. but absent that i will talk on last names in general:

in most cultures a last name is either their job, who they belonged to, the first name of their father, or just something they saw when they picked out their name. 

the first gives us names like smith, or carpenter, or barker, or baker, or weaver, or waulker, and other countries have those same kinds of things but in their language (like schmidt for smith)

the second gives us things like walters or richards, because the person was a slave to a man named walter or richard. 

the third gives us things like fitzpatrick or jackson (son of patrick, or son of jack)

and the last gives us things like hill or river or meadows.

and we see these in other cultures too...the evolution usually follows:

you have a few people in your village, first name is fine- > village gets too big "did you want that john, that john, or that john" need a last name "i want john the smith", "i want john son of jack"- >  get big enough you need third names.

so why might they be long, well fitzpatrick is already a pretty long name, for greek you might have "Giannopoulos" or "son of giannis" (note: greek seem to have a lot of things that are "son of" in different ways, like Ioannidis, son of ioannis, Michelakakis, Michelakis, Michelakos, all meaning son of michael)

and sometimes we will see last names of where the person is from, usually aristocracy or famous people...like leonardo da vinici...which is just Leonard of ~~Venice~~ vinci. or Otto von Bismarck...otto from bismarck.

so if you see a long name in some language, pretty good chance it means "son of [such and such]" or "from such and such a place" these are usually the longer names.

Question: How does the ketogenic diet work, and do is actually cause more weight loss that low calorie?
Answer: Yes.  Part of it is that when eating a ketogenic diet, the food you're eating is more filling becuase you've cut out starch and carbs.  So people end up eating less calories anyway.

Question: What is the difference between 2nd person point of view and 3rd person point of view?
Answer: I think 2nd person is where the narrator is aware of the reader and "speaks" to the reader, saying "you will love this" or "if you didn't know" ect. 3rd person is just an outside voice of the story/text, narrating what's happening in the text.

Question: Why is ketchup always watery when you first use it if you continually squirt the water out?
Answer: The heavy solid chunks gradually fall to the bottom of the bottle, leaving the watery part toward the top.

Question: How did the Polynesians have enough food and water to travel such great distances in canoes and why did they do it?
Answer: Carrying enough food isn't really a problem, especially 2,000 or 3,000 years ago, when there were lots more fish in the sea.


I sailed 12,800 km, from Panama to New Caledonia on a 11-meter sloop.

We left with 100 liters of fresh water for 4 adults.  We caught rain running off the mainsail and put it in the tank.  Never was short of water.

We towed two fishing lures the entire time.  We caught good sized tuna every other day, usually two at the same time.  We would catch one or two dorado every 5th day or so.

As we emptied the jars of vegetables and other foods, we would refill with fish and a court bouillon, then water-bath can the jars on the boat's stove.

We arrived in Noumea with all the jars full of fish, which were given away to the skipper's friends.

Question: Why it's so difficult to make Xbox 360/PS3 emulators for PC.
Answer: Well first off an Emulator for a game console is a software that is replicating the hardware that is being used in the console and its operating system.

Old machines we're easy to do this with such as the GameCube and N64 because they we're inexpensive and simple machines.

Microsoft and Sony however have spent money and time protecting their software and hardware and actively do so. This makes it difficult for someone to accurately replicate their safety precautions and encryption data. 

Once the 360 and ps3 have lost their spotlight and support, the hardware and software will stop receiving updates and will be easier to replicate. 

Also microsoft and sony lawyers won't be so quick to threaten anyone who tries ;)

Question: - Why do the ads on youtube load immediately with awesome quality but then the video I actually want to watch won't load or takes forever to buffer?
Answer: The videos used for ads are stored on their own server locality in relation to your location. Since YouTube makes its money off of ads, they have to make sure the ads load.

Question: Why does green and blue light create yellow light, but yellow and blue paint create green paint?
Answer: What happens with combining light and combining pigment is two different things. 

Essentially, a color of light is made up of the color that you are seeing when it hits your eyes. Mixing another light into the first will make you see a combination of the two lights, which increases the brightness, and lightens the color. For a good example, play around with RGB colors in MS Paint. Adding or removing different lights can cause all kinds of colors to occur. 

When you have an object that is colored, what you actually have is an object that reflects that color of light, but absorbs all other light. A white object reflects all light, and a Black object absorbs all light.

So when you have a red blob of paint, and you mix Blue in, instead of getting even brighter (more light) the two colors together absorb some blue, and some red, and your eyes interpret this as purple. 

So if you have a bunch of different colored lights, and you turn them all on, it will look like white light, but if you have a bunch of different colored paint, and mix it all together it will likely turn brown or very very dark.

Question: 2 stroke vs 4 stroke engine
Answer: Four stroke- Suck, squeeze, bang, blow. Flow of air/fuel and exhaust controlled by valves.

Two stroke- Suckbang, Squeezeblow. Flow of air/fuel/oil (oil for lubrication, they don't tend to have oil sumps) and exhaust gasses is typically controlled by ports in the cylinder wall, though IIRC there are valved two-strokes.

Question: Why does sending group texts and pictures use up cellular data, when normal texts do not? And how does a text to an iMessage group text compare to a text to a non-iMessage group text in terms of how much data it uses?
Answer: When you send a multiple messages in group text it counts as an MMS, depending on your plan and data limits you would be charged outside of that. Most plans cover Text+MMS but some companies do Text only. There is no real way to calculate the exact use beside checking data use tools in the iPhone - sincerely an Ex AT & T Tech agent

Question: Why does the water in my bathtub always go down the drain in an anti-clockwise direction?
Answer: The short answer is: "no it doesn't!". Think of it like a long pole standing without support: In which direction does it fall? The answer is: That direction where it is slightly tilted already. The water in the sink works similar: it will go down in a direction based on a small amount of movement present in the water. Only if the water is almost perfectly calm (almost never under everyday conditions) the Coriolis effect determines the direction of the circle. You can read about an experiment which eliminated other effects than the Coriolis effect in [this wikipedia article](_URL_0_).

Question: Why does salt water soothe canker sores when adding salt to an open wound often makes it hurt more?
Answer: Salt and/or baking soda lower the acidity in your mouth which can help the canker sore to disappear sooner.

Question: Why do people with a stutter typically only have trouble with the first syllable of a word?
Answer: I suffered with a stutter. I was deaf until I was seven. The stutter isn't a problem of starting, it's a problem with fluidity. This problem just happens to show up at the git-go.

Question: Why do humans laugh? What physiological purpose does it serve and is there have an evolutionary reason behind laughter?
Answer: This is what I always think about when it comes to laughter. It's simple, a neat explanation, and it's Calvin and Hobbes so it's cool as shit.  _URL_0_

Question: Why are dogs so much more varied than cats?
Answer: Dogs can work for us, so we spent a lot more time and effort trying to breed specific characteristics.  Sometimes these characteristics involve appearance as well.

Question: Does anything actually stop a foreign army from invading a 'Neutral' country?
Answer: The same reason you already said: money.

If any developed country gets invaded, other countries have everything to lose.  Also, politics don't work that way in developed countries.  Allies, treaties, UN.  The UN might not do much, but the countries in the UN will have something to say about it.  

So, you can invade, but when you try and get carpet bombed repeatedly, over and over by every other country, your country will be in a lot worse position than originally.  Not quite worth it.

Question: ; "Crony-Capitalism"
Answer: Capitalism, in its true form, finds efficient outcomes because it rewards the most efficient and effective operators, and punishes the worst by having them go bankrupt.

Crony capitalism, also sometimes called lemon capitalism, refers to the practice of businesses forming personal relationships with politicians etc. to get them to give the business special treatments - they keep the profits when they do well, but the Government helps them when they fail.

Question: What does the little ball inside a whistle do?
Answer: The ball inside the whistle is not necessary for the whistle to work but serves a purpose. A whistle without a ball has a flat tone that may get "lost".

In an American Whistle the ball rises and falls as it is pushed around by the turbulence. When the ball moves within the chamber, it creates variations within the pitch, or the trilling sound you associate with a quality whistle blast. 

[Source](_URL_0_)

Question: Why bad habits are so easy to start and good ones are so hard.
Answer: Most bad habits feel good instantly.  Drinking, smoking, eating unhealthy food, drugs, whatever.  

That's not really the case with something like saving extra money or eating a more bland and healthy meal.  The payoff for things like that are weeks/months away.

Exercise is easy to start imo, provided you aren't very out of shape and have at least a decent amount motivation.

Question: Why is illegal immigration such a big deal?
Answer: Here's a test for you:

Next time you leave your house, leave the door unlocked.

Then, let people know your door is unlocked.

Then, come back and see what your house is like a few hours later.

Question: Why are there so much rape in India?
Answer: Yer not alone in askin', and kind strangers have explained:

1. [ELI5: Why there seems to be so much rape in India ](_URL_3_)
1. [ELI5: Why is there so much gang raping in India? ](_URL_0_)
1. [ELI5: Why are there so many men raping women in india? ](_URL_5_)
1. [ELI5 INDIA: Why is there so much rape in India????? ](_URL_4_)
1. [ELI5: Why is rape so common in India? ](_URL_2_)
1. [ELI5: Why are men raping so many women in India? ](_URL_6_)
1. [[ELI5] What is there so much rape in India ](_URL_1_)

Question: Do service dogs know that they are helping?
Answer: They know they are doing what they are trained to do, and they know they get rewarded for it. I don't think that the concept of "helpful" is really fleshed out in a dog - they don't really understand those concepts like we do (though we like to anthropomorphise them) - but it doesn't really matter if they understand it. They do it, and it makes them happy (or whatever happy is for a dog).

Question: Why is the age of adulthood and consent (usually 18) a big deal in the western societies? Why is it, for example, normal for a 14 year old to have sex with a 16 year old, but not with an 18 year old?
Answer: There are many cases  where a line does need to be drawn, but no bright line exists. Certainly we need some kind of age of majority, as there exists some age which is too young to understand a contract, fight in a war, run a household, make their own decisions in terms of education, health care etc. There's nothing special about 18, that's just what we chose. Anything else would be just as arbitrary. It makes sense because anything else would be an inconsistent, bureaucratic nightmare (do you register your fist period so you can sign up for a credit card? What about precocious puberty, do we call two-year-old's adults?). It's the same as speed limits, it's not like driving 30 mph in a school zone is safer than 32 mph, but we have to draw a line somewhere and 30 is a nice, round number.

In terms of sexuality, the age of consent varies widely from state to state. Some states allow teens to legally have sex with people close to their own age, even if one is a minor and the other isn't. Eighteen is just the federal number, which only applies to interstate commerce.

Question: Why most eggs in the nature have an eleptic form?
Answer: Because it's the sturdiest structure an egg can have, and all species that lay eggs that developed this trait for eggs had their eggs survive til hatching, thereby drastically increasing the number of surviving members of that species to go on to lay elliptical eggs.

Question: Why is it I can perceive light better in my peripheral vision?
Answer: This is due to the distribution of the photoreceptors in the retina (back of the eye). There are two types of receptors, cones and rods. Cones have color vision, but low sensitivity to light levels, whereas rods only "see" black and white, but are very sensitive to changes in light levels. Now look at this image:

_URL_0_

It maps the receptor distribution along the retina. The fovea is the center. Notice how in the fovea (labelled as zero degrees), cones dominate while rods are non-existent - but rods are more prominent in the periphery. Hence the better ability to distinguish light in the peripheral vision.

Question: What causes the "zoom-in" feeling late at night, making it look like your room is 1/10th its size?
Answer: I have posted this before...


Alice in wonderland syndrome.

I'm not sure my exact age at the time but I was around 9 or 10. I was laying stomach down on the brown velvety living room couch facing out with my left cheek to couch. Must have been attempting to nap.

I was staring at the opposite wall where the room corner meets the ceiling and all of a sudden I felt myself shrink down to doll size. The room became bigger and bigger and I didn't move any part of my body except my eyes to look around the room. The depth and size of the objects in the room kept adjusting and readjusting to various proportions. 

I was so young I didn't understand the disorientation should be alarming and I felt like I could control the swing of becoming smaller and then normal size and then abnormally larger. I remember feeling like I was "in" the carpet like I was insect size. The sounds from around the house (like my grandma cooking in the nearby kitchen) seemed to ebb and flow per the appropriate "size" I was or distance I was away. I vaguely recall being able to recreate the experience only one more time but trying over and over to do so because I enjoyed the feeling so much.

I only learned what this is called about 2 years ago. Until then I kept it to myself because I thought I may have dreamed it or made it up in my childish recollection.

Question: Why did the Panda species let their genes deteriorate until this bad and how are they still not extinct?
Answer: Because they have no natural predators and fill a niche which no other organism is really competing for, it makes sense to me that their senses might deteriorate over time. If a species doesn't need something in order to continue reproducing effectively, then expending energy to develop and use it becomes a waste and individuals who develop these "unnecessary" traits (perfect panda eyesight perhaps) are selected against.

Fast-forward to 2017. A massive swath of panda habitat has been destroyed. On top of just removing stuff pandas live in, this also creates patches of habitat cut apart (fragmented) by things like roads, canals, etc. and the WWF website lists this as the number one threat to the Panda's survival. On top of that there are people who hunt pandas, so we are acting as another extremely rapid change in selective pressure by introducing ourselves as an invasive predator. Rapid environmental change is hitting them while their genes are fine for the environment they were living in, but look quite bad for the one they live in now.

Question: Are infant deaths in hot cars on the rise, or is it this summer's "shark attack" news?
Answer: It's getting a lot of airplay this summer, most likely in the wake of one such fatality that [prosecutors think was intentional](_URL_0_).

Question: Chernobyl
Answer: Chernobyl was a russian nuclear power station. It was one of the earliest designs of nuclear power stations, built when we didn't know all that much about making nuclear power stations. This lead to several problems in the way it was built.

When nuclear power plants are in operation, the uranium in them spontaniously creates heat, which we use to make electricity. This is good, however they generate a lot of heat, so much that if we just left the uranium alone it'd melt (greater than 1000c).

We have what are callled moderators which allow you to "turn off" nuclear reactions when you surround the uranium with them. Chernobyl used graphite for this purpose. Graphite is pencil lead. Now, even once you "turn off" the nuclear reaction you need to keep the fuel cool for a long time whilst it gets rid of all the heat it has built up. Chernobyl used a water cooling system to do this.

Now, because this was the early days of nuclear power, there weren't many safety mechanisms, and the engineers at Chernobyl were worried that if there was a big problem and the power grid failed and you had to do an emergancy shutdown of the reactor, there wouldn't be any power to keep the water cooling system pumping water into the reactor. They worked out it'd take up to 1min for their backup diesel generators to turn on to provide emergency power.

So some bright person had an idea. The turbines that generated the electricity from the nuclear reactor would contiune to spin for a short while even once the reactor was shut down. They calculated that they'd continue to spin for enough time to provide power to the cooling system while the diesel generators started up. They decided to run an experiment to test this.

Due to a problem at another plant, there wasn't enough power in the grid, so the experiment (which would require shutting down the station for a while) had to be delayed to keep power on in people's homes. This delay meant that the experiment happened later than was expected and the people who were going to do it had all gone home. The night shift were now going to do the experiment, but they weren't as prepared to do it as the day shift was.

But they continued anyway, they lowered the power of the reactor but due to some mistakes they turned it down too much and it was so low it was almost "turned off", this was outside the "minimum safe power" they had calculated to run the experiment. They turned up the reactor as much as they could, but were still only able to get it to about 1/3 they level it was supposed to be at. So the power level of the station was turned up to as high as it could go (this mean that the graphite moderators were completely removed from the fuel). This was a very unsafe situation to be in because any sudden change in power output levels when the station was "pedal to the metal" could send things out of control.

But the experiement was conducted anyway, they turned off the turbines and let the spin-down on their own, providing power for cooling systems. The diesel generators turned on as planned and provided power to the cooling system as was predicted. However as the turbines spun-down the speed of water travelling through the core slowed down, this meant that the water spent longer being heated by the fuel. As the reactor was turned "right up" the water started to boil and created "steam voids" which are bubbles of steam. The problem is water acts as a partial moderator, so having water around the fuel slows the reaction to some degree, but steam is not a moderator, so as these steam voids formed, the reaction speeded up more and more, and more steam voids were formed. 

Luckly there was an automatic system that pushed in the graphite moderator rods to counter-act the increased power from the steam voids so things were okay. However for some reason someone pressed the "emergency" button which was designed to fully insert all the control rods all at once in order to shut everything down. Usually this is a good thing but because of the way the reactor had been messed around with it was in a very precarious situation, it was right on the brink of going out of control.

The problem with pressing the emergency button was that the system to insert the rods was very slow, it took 20 seconds to fully insert all the rods. This was made worse by a design flaw in the rods. The rods weren't long enough and when they were fully withdrawn water replaced the space where the rods were. And the first few feet of the rods were made of a different material to the rest, which wasn't good at slowing down nuclear reactions. So as the rods were slowly inserted what happened is that first the water (which is fairly good at slowing nuclear reactions) was pushed out of the way, to make way for the tips of the rods which wasn't very good. This meant that inserting the rods actually increased the nuclear reaction at first, rather than slowing it.

As the reactor was already in a very unstable state this tipped the balance and there was a massive chain-reaction power spike which caused an explosion (but this was a heat explosion from the massive amount of heat generated quickly, not a nuclear explosion). This explosion caused the rods to become stuck so they couldn't be pushed in any further. This caused the situation to rapidly get out of hand, and the power levels were escalating quickly. The power levels jumped to 1,000x times the level they were when this all started.

The steam made from all the water boiling exploded and the whole roof of the building was blown off. Of course now all the water was steam there was no moderation from the water at all, so the power levels got higher still. Next there was another explosion called a "nuclear excursion" which is like a mini-but-not-quite nuclear explosion, this blew up the uranium and spread it about which luckly prevented it from doing any further nuclear reactions (it needs to be all clumped together to react). 

However now there was utter devastation, the roof had been blown off the building, and unlike modern power plants there was not "containment vessel" which is a big strong "bottle" we build around the reactor to keep everything bad in. things had gotten so hot that the graphite was burning which was spreading radioactive smoke all around the countryside.


So, firemen came to put out the fires, but they hadn't been told about the radation. They bravely put out the fires and prevented damage to the other reactors that could have made things much worse. Sadly alot of them died from radation posioning.

Because of political reasons the Soviet Union didn't want to admit there had been a problem, so they tried to keep things quiet, but eventually a power plant in sweden detected elevated levels of radation and they were forced to admit what was happening and evacuate civilains. But all the time there was real problems caused by the secrecy they tried to keep. Poor famers eat food and drank milk that had had radioactive smoke landing on it.

In the end teams of workers bravely battled to contain the reactor. They dropped sand and lead from helicopters and constructed a concrete "sarcophagus" around the reactor to keep all the radioactive stuff in. They had to work very quickly and were getting alot of radation, so it was very dangerous.

The reactor has been in the concrete sarcophagus ever since. But its starting to get very old, as it was made in 1986. So there is plans to build a new protective cover. To prevent workers having to get too close, they are going to make this large arch-like cover a few hundred meters away from the site, then slide it over the plan on sliders. Then they will very quickly seal up th remaining gaps and it will be safe enough for a fairly long period to come.

Question: How were Integrals, Derivatives, Limits, and other calculus concepts originally discovered and applied?
Answer: They were discovered thousands of years ago, but the methods for that were super complex. Someone ssked Newton how he knew that earth had an elliptical orbit and not circular. So he went home and invented Calculus to explain his reasoning.

Question: How do our bodies know to wake up right before an alarm or right before a bus/train stop?
Answer: So your brain has lots of nerves all smashed together in the center of you brain called the suprachiasmatic nucleus. It's a very accurate clock inside your brain! We naturally look for patterns all the time and so does the nucleus. So when you get in a pattern of sleeping and waking up at the same time the nucleus at those times release a chemical called cortisol and a few others to wake you up! An alarm clock actually causes a lot of stress, so your brain pushes those chemicals out before it thinks it will go off!

Question: Scott Kelly returned to earth today. How was he able to return to earth, and land in Kazakstan, by just floating in a space craft with a parachute?
Answer: The International Space Station is in orbit around the earth. It's affected by gravity, but because it's moving "sideways", it doesn't hit the earth--it "misses" and just keeps going in circles around it. You can only do this when you're going very fast.

To de-orbit and eventually land, you need to slow down. You do this by turning on your engine and applying the energy opposite to the direction you're traveling, retrograde. If you know your speed, earth's gravity the power of your engine, and how long you have it turned on for, you can calculate what effect this will have on the orbit--you can trace a path that's on a predictable collision course with earth. After your initial de-orbit burn, you don't have to do anything; you fall back to earth by gravity. Since earth has an atmosphere, you have to account for drag and the effect of the parachute, too, but you can calculate the rough landing location.

All this means is that when you burn at the right spot in your orbit and in the right direction for the right amount of time, you can make yourself land in any spot on earth that's covered by your orbit.

Question: Why are there so many claims of paranormal activities by people yet there had never been any evidence to support their claims ever in history.
Answer: 1. Because they're nice ideas.  We die but we become ghosts, so it's a little like not dying at all, which terrifies us.

2. Because there are things we can't explain - like why do we sometimes get the chills ([Cracked did a great job](_URL_0_) explaining things that until very recently were inexplicable).  Because we're inquisitive and intelligent creatures, we can't handle not knowing something, so we make something up.

3.  Related to number 1, we just *want* to believe because wouldn't telepathy and aliens be cool and less boring than life?

Question: Whats the difference between theoretical physics and philosophy?
Answer: Science asks "how" and philosophy asks "why." 

Essentially the scientists make observations, and construct theories to explain how the laws of nature interact, what those laws are, and how that explains the observations. 

The philosopher looks at the scientists' work and asks, why are the laws of physics the way they are? What does that mean for our society and help us cope with the human condition?

Question: Why do Americans pay for so much for healthcare, yet other countries are able to get by without paying nearly as much?
Answer: First: health care isn't "free" anywhere. There may be no charge to the patient, but somebody is paying for it.

Second: insurance companies do not make up nearly as much of the problem as people in the thread are suggesting. Their profits are in the single-digit percentages, and their overhead is not nearly so high as people think. Regardless, insurance company overhead and profit are not nearly large enough to explain the price differential.

What does probably explain it is three things. 

First, though the US health care system is slightly more market oriented than the system in most other countries, it's not really a market system. In a market system, consumers know how much the goods and services they buy cost before we buy them, giving us the ability to shop around on price and creating an incentive for providers to compete on price. That simply isn't the case in US health care. Even the providers usually don't have any flipping clue how much their services cost, and even if they do they usually can't tell you up front. No one is likely to know how much something costs until months after the procedure. Prices are completely opaque, so there's every opportunity for bloat and waste.

But second, that introduces the possibility of pricing health care as if it were itself an insurance program rather than letting insurance products do the work of risk sharing. Basically, the way insurance works is that everyone pays a bit more than they need to so that no one gets completely slammed by an unusually high expense. This is how health insurance is supposed to work, and there's nothing wrong with that. What's problematic is that in addition to that kind of risk pooling, hospitals are doing some of their own. The reimbursement for Medicare patients is usually just barely enough for them to break even, and the reimbursement for Medicaid patients is so low that hospitals almost invariably lose money on them. And for the truly indigent, they usually wind up not getting paid at all. That means that those of us with money and/or private insurance wind up subsidizing those other patients. So not only are we paying into an insurance risk pool, protecting ourselves and the other members of the pool from large losses, but we're making up the difference for the huge number of Medicare/Medicaid/indigent patients who aren't paying their fair share. And this is possible because pricing is completely opaque, as described above.

Third, the above is made worse by the fact that some of the most expensive care out there--management of chronic conditions, long-term hospital stays, and cancer treatments--are mostly Medicare issues, and most other countries are simply not willing to spend what we do on those things. The US has, hands down, the best cancer survival rates in the world. But that's very expensive, and since Medicare isn't picking up the tab adequately, hospitals raise the prices on all of their other services to compensate. Same goes for extended ICU stays for the very elderly. In Europe, such patients are frequently allowed to die a lot sooner, which can save a quarter-million dollars in only a month or two. 

So when you see that $50,000 bill for a simple surgery, understand that (1) the hospital isn't actually going to collect that, maybe only $20,000 if it's lucky, and (2) a good chunk of that bill is going to subsidize other patients who aren't paying what they need to pay. 

In short, it's a combination of factors, but the biggest ones are the fact that though we're supposed to be acting in a market system, there's no accurate price information, we've chosen to spend a lot on care that other countries don't, but because Medicare doesn't actually pay enough for that care, prices go up across the board to compensate.

Question: Where does all the rock salt for keeping the roads clear go? Why haven't so many areas near roads become too salty for grass, trees etc. ?
Answer: You're on the right track of thinking. 

The reason areas near roads don't become too salty right away is because when it rains most of that water enters a drainage system and makes its way towards rivers and lakes. That's where the biggest issues occur as you often see fish, algae, pretty much any aquatic organism get affected. Another factor to note is the frequency at which salt is being deposited. Salting the roads one time for a single snow storm won't have as much of an effect as areas further north (or south, depending) which require salting roads once a week or more.

Some municipalities have started switching to beet juice for just this reason.

Question: Do those phone apps that say they can save power actually do anything?
Answer: generally no.

If you take a look at what your smartphone uses the lion share of its battery for its the screen (40% to 70%). The easiest way for most smartphone users to extend their battery life is just to keep their screen brightness down and set short timeout for the screen (30 seconds) after that the phone will spend most of the remaining bulk of its power on maintaining its connection to the network when not in use (because most of the time its not transmitting) This percentage can go up if the phone has poor reception or if you spend a lot of time on a call or video.

Its a common misconception also (especially with android users) that they have apps running in the background to blame for poor battery life.
app killers have been the rage for a long time, but truthfully they do little to nothing to help. Unlike a PC a phone will not ususlly run two apps at the same time (some more advanced samsung models do this) but when you have multiple apps "open" it just means that their in a sort of suspended animation, waiting for you to open them again. this is why if you press home out of say a playing youtube video or an angry birds game it will pause until you go back in where on a PC, just changing to a new window won't do that. Music apps have to be designed with special permissions to keep running behind the scenes and are an exception not the rule.

If you are having exceptionally bad battery life (less than half a day) then the issue may be hardware related. You may want to bring your phone in to your carrier for them to look at.

Question: . What makes something "radioactive" and why is it dangerous?
Answer: There are a couple of different kinds of radiation: high energy photons like xrays and gamma rays; alpha particles, which are basically high energy helium nuclei; and beta radiation, which are high energy electrons or positrons.

Alpha and beta decay are caused by unstable nuclei decaying into more stable nuclei. Remember that electrical charges that are the same (like two positively charged protons) repel each other. Atomic nuclei are full of protons that absolutely do not want to be that close together, but are forced to be by the two nuclear forces, the strong and weak forces. If the charges put too much stress on the nucleus, our breaks down into a smaller nucleus, or a proton might change into a neutron (or vice versa). When this happens, energy is released as a fast moving particle.

High energy photons are just light far above the spectrum we can see. When electrons fall from a higher orbit around their nucleus to a lower one, a photon is emitted. The energy of the photon depends on how high it started and how low it went. Electrons can be charged and elevated to a higher orbit by a few things (including getting hit by another high energy photon).

No matter what the radiation comes from, it's dangerous because it can damage your DNA. High energy photons blast electrons off their atom permanently - ionizing them - which permanently changes the chemical bond that relies on electrons, which can blast apart your DNA. Alpha and beta particles just collide with molecules and can blow them apart, including your DNA. 

Messed up DNA leads to cancer long term, if it's not enough to kill you outright. Short term, a lot of radiation stops your cells from replicating at all, so as cells die, they aren't replaced with new ones. And of course, the radiation doesn't only hit DNA, it can also just blow apart important molecules in your cells. Normally you can just fix those, though, unless your DNA or the rest of your cell is too damaged. So that can kill you very quickly and painfully with a lot of it, or slowly and still painfully with a little bit.

Alpha particles can be blocked by a sweater. Beta particles can be blocked by a thin sheet of metal, it doesn't take much. Gamma rays need several inches of lead.

Question: The movie American Beauty
Answer: Regular message: People are happiest doing the things that make them happy, even if those things are simple or weird or unambitious. Much of modern suburban, upper-middle class life is designed to make us forget that fact, and the people most committed to keeping up appearances are in fact the least happy and most damaged.  

Meta Message: If the acting is good enough, and you sexualize enough young people, audiences will pay a lot of money to watch a super-pretentious version of Office Space.

Question: When my internet is super slow, why does restarting my modem/router fix it?
Answer: Various different reasons cause this phenomenon.

First and most common, when the router/modem are on for long periods of time, stored data (web addresses you have visited alongw ith tracking to make it easier to access those sites) builds up. Modems and routers have an onboard memory that stores and records data so that your surfing is easier and more precise, instead of having to pull it up multiple times, it stores that data in files to see it better. Resetting the devices allows your modem and router to "rest" in a sense of the word. 

Another common issue is after time, your computer, router, and modem, have to deal with whats called a "Lease time" which in its most basic form says when the computer and modem are allowed to talk to the internet. If this file is expired, sometimes the router does not properly re=establish on its own thus resulting in a dropped connection. Rebooting the device allows for this information to be transmitted again and re-synchronized to the servers giving you your internet, and to the device.

Another big problem with the routers is the fact that as you use them, they are connected to many, many devices sometimes. If your a typical family of four in this day and age.. you have at least 3 computers, 2 tablets, 4 smartphones, 1 gaming console, and 1 smart tv. A Minmum user devices of 10, along with the router itself, the modem, any other associated wireless boosting devices and other equipment in your home that may or may not tie directly to the internet. So a minimum of 13 connected devices are in most American homes nowdays. This means the router is constantly dropping and reading these devices over time. As it assigns and retakes IP addresses, some routers will get stuck or corrupt, and resetting allows it to drop all of its current configurations and repair to all your devices as it is reset so that you may be reconnected again..


**HOWEVER**

If you are having to "Reboot" your devices too often, this may be a cause for concern. Over rebooting is a sign of possible internal circuitry damage, or possible antenna damage and weakness.

generally, if you do reboot your equipment, it should only be once or twice a month... If you are rebooting to the tune of 1 or 2 times per week, or even once per day, then you are most likely past preventative reboots as explained above, and you have ventured into the realm of a damaged device. At this point, replacing your worn out devices or scheduling a service call to check the quality of service from your provider is recommended and should be done immediately.

Question: what is the point of the whole "fifth world" subreddits
Answer: This  question might get better responses in /r/OutOfTheLoop.

Question: How does Winrar get companies to pay for it when they could do exactly what we are doing?
Answer: Why does anyone still use WinRAR when we could all just use 7-zip?

Question: When Windows first loads and everything is going extremely slowly for several minutes but task manager doesn't show anything taking up much CPU or RAM, what the hell is it doing?
Answer: Look at your I/O (Disk usage), most of the time, that is what is slowing down your windows startup the most. 

That's why so many people buy SSDs, they are much faster than regular hard drives (but obviously more expensive).

Question: How do completely deaf people know what is being said after their cochlear implant is turned on?
Answer: I had a had a friend growing up that was deaf and got a cochlear implant in second grade. She was out of school for a week afterwards but once she came back she could understand everything I said extremely well. Even if she couldn't see my lips she could easily understand me. She could already speak, sign, and read lips pretty well before she got the implant so that probably aided her in understanding me so quickly. 

She has been deaf since birth and is now studying language, she knows at least 4 by now.

Something I'd like to address here in addition to what has been previously mentioned. Deaf people only sound the way they do because they cannot hear themselves properly. My friend recieved an upgraded implant a year ago and her voice instantly changed. Every few sentences you could hear her real voice. She has no doubt improved since I last spoke with her.

Question: In this advance of Information Technology, why we still rely solely on blackbox?
Answer: We don't rely solely on the black box. It is, as you suggest, a last resort.

Modern aircraft broadcast their position, elevation, heading, and air speed almost continuously, and this information is made available in real-time (europe) or nearly so (US).

Unfortunately, in a situation where any of this is needed, is one where things have gone horribly wrong. In this case, the black box (which is actually hi-viz orange) may be useful or necessary to tie together many other pieces of information surrounding the incident.

Even if we had complete, real-time data (as above) on every accident, the "what" data does not tell us "why". The "why" is the purpose of the long NTSB investigations, and would you really trust a report issued before all possible sources of data were collected?

Question: What makes super powers impossible?
Answer: Most super powers violate the laws of physics.  That's what makes them so "super", and it's also what makes them impossible.  If there were possible, like the James Bond or Batman stuff, they wouldn't be super powers but just cool gadgets.

Question: Why do couples that are having trouble getting pregnant want a biological child so much when there are many children in need of adoption?
Answer: It is the innate human drive to carry on the individuals own genetic heritage. If you adopt, you and your partners DNA is not passed to future generations. This also plays into an individuals want/need to be genetically immortal via its offspring.

Question: You hear about top executives and CEOs reducing their salary to $1 a year. How is this not against minimum-wage laws? And if it isn't, why not just cut the dollar out?
Answer: These wage laws do not apply to [exempt workers, only non-exempt](_URL_0_).  And...cutting the dollar out _would_ raise red flags since there would be value exchange without compensation.

Question: How is blood pressure measured?  Why do 
doctors measure it?  What does it tell them?
Answer: Blood pressure can be measured in many ways. Most commonly we use sphygmomanometers (you may know them as "blood pressure cuffs"). They wrap around your bicep to measure your radial pulse.  On top of using the sphygmomanometer, we use a method called ausculatory method, which basically means inflating the sphygmomanometer cuff an using a stethoscope and listening to the pulse at your elbow. Note that when in a clinical setting, such as when you're admitted into a hospital, we'll hook you up to a machine so that we can log your pressure.

Us nurses are usually the ones who get these readings, not MD's. I'll sum up your last two questions into one. We care about blood pressure because it is a part of the vital signs. Other vital signs include temperature, pulse, and respiratory rate. What blood pressure readings tell us is how much pressure is being put onto your arteries for each heart beat. Your BP varies from a low point (diastolic) and a high point (systolic) during each heart beat. The systolic number tells us how much pressure is being exerted in the arteries as the heart squeezes out blood during each beat. The diastolic number tells us the amount of pressure in the heart when it is heart relaxes before the next beat.

When you hear them say it's, for example, "120 over 80", they are specifying how much pressure in terms of millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). 

We care about this because, as an adult your BP should be below 120/80, between ~90/~60 and ~119/~79. This is what we consider in the normal, healthy range. 

Anything below ~90/~60 is what we call **hypo**tension. Typically people who are **hypo**tensive are so because of shock, or manually by vasodilation (note: vasodilation is when we want to open the blood vessels to increase flow of blood). 

When your BP is between ~120/~80 and ~139/~89, you're considered pre-**hyper**tensive. Generally people who are overweight are in this range most of the time. This is your body telling you something is wrong and you need to fix it. You cannot live in this range for long, and it only gets worse.

From pre-**hyper**tensive we get to **hyper**tensive, or high blood pressure. This range is anything from ~140/90 and ~179/109. Your body starts to fail. You are at risk for heart attacks and strokes (due to the thickening of arteries which is called atherosclerosis). You're at risk for an aneurysm, which if ruptures, is usually fatal. Kidneys start to fail because of the narrowed blood vessels. Your vision can deteriorate due to narrowed blood vessels.

Anything above ~180/~120, you gonna' die! Get help immediately. Risks are fluid on the lungs (pulmonary edema), brain swelling and/or bleeding, a tear in your arteries, heart attack, stroke, and if you're pregnant, seizures (aka eclampsia).

Hope this helped

edit: fixed mixup of systolic/diastolic

Question: Why do people find PDA uncomfortable?
Answer: Swapping mouth juices is kinda gross. Other forms of PDA are less gross, but still can be pretty gross, especially if the two people are ALL OVER each other. Also, sometimes envy or jealousy play into it. Also, sometimes certain pairings of people/genders make people uncomfortable.

Question: Where exactly does money from paid bails go to?
Answer: If you show up for your trial, you get the money back. 

If you don't show up for your trial, it goes into the general fund for the courts.

Question: why can't bitcoins be cheated?
Answer: So...  Theres a lot of questions to answer, so I'll do my best:

Bitcoin has value because people give it value, not a government or a country.  If no one accepted dollars or euros or zimbabwean dollars, then it would lose its "value".  If no one was willing to pay for bitcoins or accept bitcoins in exchange for goods and services, it wouldnt be worth anything.

Bitcoins mining is a process in which new coins are generated, but that "mining" process also is a system of checks and balances.  The bitcoin source code has been released, anybody with a reasonable understanding of programming can see and understand the code.  That being said, the creator of bitcoin himself could not change the code now without consensus of 51% of the network.  If one were to introduce false coins into the network, they would be rejected.  

Every bitcoin transaction that has ever taken place can be tracked, and is on a public ledger that can be viewed by everyone.  You can see for yourself at _URL_0_.

The only way to infiltrate the bitcoin system is with something called a 51% attack, basically you need to control 51% of the network to do something called a double spend, which means you can spend your bitcoins twice.  Fortunately the bitcoin network is so vast, that this is virtually impossible, and thus its much harder to hack the network than it is to print fake fiat currency.

So the next question you're probably asking is why then do I hear about bitcoin being hacked so often.  The bitcoin protocol itself is decentralized (much like torrents) and is virtually unhackable.  Exchanges and computers are not.  When you put bitcoins on your PC, your computer can be hacked, people can gain access to your bitcoins and spend them the same way you would.  Bitcoin exchanges can be hacked, because you're basically trusting that someone else's computer is not going to get hacked.

Question: How (if at all) would the extinction of flies and/or mosquitoes affect the course of nature?
Answer: An interesting question. Like you said in the description, it would make our lives happier. 

Firstly, there would be no Malaria being spread by Mosquitoes in third world countries, so, going back to your original point, less people will die and therefore more people will be happy.

Moving onto flies. When flies land on your food at a picnic, or a BBQ, they are trying to eat it. Flies eat differently than us; they spit out acid (similar to bile, I think) which digests the food, and turns it into goo. Then the fly uses its long tube-like mouth to suck it up. Disgusting, right? That's not even the start of the story. Chances are, before that fly landed on your tasty steak or crispy crisps, it was eating a nice fresh piece of animal poo. Now this is the truly disgusting part. When a fly lands on a piece of poo, tiny bits of it get stuck to its legs. Then, it flies over to your food and lands on it; which spreads germs from the poo. ***DISGUSTING***.

**But believe it or not** flies are actually *sorta* important to our ecosystem. Because of the flies diet, they will eat dead things, and thus remove them for us (in an unpleasant, but effective way). So without the humble fly, we would have dead carcasses and animal feces everywhere. That will be truly disgusting.

TL;DR: Flies... we need those guys. As for Mosquitoes, fuck the 
bastards. 

Ps. To anyone reading this; would this be a good question to post on /r/HistoricalWhatIf ?

Edit: Grammar and shtuff.

Edit #2 (***No, that isn't a hashtag!***): found some links to flies. None on Mosquitoes. I hate the bastards. 

_URL_0_

_URL_2_

_URL_1_ (I liked the second paragraph best!)

Question: Is alcoholism hereditary? If so, how?
Answer: Alcoholism isn't hereditary so much as there is a gene that cause one to be prone to addiction.  My dad was an alcoholic I never was, but i am a recovering meth addict.  I have been clean for 4 years

Question: Why do people tend to get colds during the winter months, but not the summer months?
Answer: Not exactly the cold, but there are some theories around flu transmission. Essentially the cold weather is believed to help the virus survive longer outside the host, while the lower humidity levels often found during winter may aid in aerosol transmission. 

Lower humidity also dries out the mucus membranes, possibly making them more susceptible to viral transmission as well as causing us to touch our noses more often.

Question: How has Magic Johnson been able to live so long with HIV?
Answer: HAART therapy combines a whole load of drugs that can reduce the rate at which HIV becomes aids. They target things like how the viruses genetic material becomes DNA, it can prevent binding of the virus to human cells, it can stop viral DNA from being integrated with our DNA so the building blocks of viruses can't be made and they can prevent those blocks from being put together. The virus evolves methods of beating these treatments though.  Nowdays HIV suferers can have a life expectancy into their 70s. I am a microbiology student and have had this info drilled into me but this is ELI5 so i'll leave it at that.

Question: The difference between Coca-Cola, Diet Coke, Coke Life.
Answer: Coca Cola uses lots of sugar, and hence has lots of calories

Diet Coke replaces the sugar with sweeteners such as aspartame, which are calorie-free. Therefore the drink is calorie-free. (It actually has a couple of calories, but it's so low that the rules allow these calories to be ignored.)

Some people think aspartame is unnatural and therefore like to avoid it. So they introduced Coke Life, which uses Stevia as a sweetener. Stevia can be quite bitter by itself, so it's mixed with a little bit of sugar. This means it is not calorie-free, but is much lower in calories than regular Coca Cola.

Question: why is there still royalty in England
Answer: Just to clarify, in the UK at present, we don't have a King, we have the Queen and her consort, the prince. 

As doc_daneeka touched on, the Queen has an important role, although essentially ceremonial, in our parliamentary constitutional monarchy system as the head of state. 

It's not a great comparison given the Queen never expresses any political opinions or uses any of the powers she has without direction from her government, but she's in essence the 'president' in our system and given the complicated unwritten constitution it would certainly be a huge task to remove the position. 

The other major reason is that there's not a huge will to get rid of them, there are small republican movements but they've never really attracted wide support. We did remove the monarchy after our civil war in 1649 but restored about 20 years later and we've been 'content' with them ever since. 

And then there's the money, for all the talk of 'what they cost us' it's not a bad deal, the monarchy essentially gave up their land etc. and the subsequent income that made (£200m/year) to the treasury in exchange for what was called 'the civil list', an annual budget of about £8m. Then there's all the tourism revenue they help create. 

TLDR; Too much effort to remove them from the system, they don't cost a great deal in comparison to what they pull in and republicanism isn't widely supported.

Question: Why is CNN so widely disrespected?
Answer: Because they pretend to a serious news station, yet pander to the lowest common denominator US-centric gossip masquerading as news.

For example, in 2009, there were pro-democracy demonstrations in Iran at the same time as there was a coup in Honduras.  CNN gave us a week of 24/7 coverage of Michael Jackson's death.

They also gave Nancy Grace her own show, for that alone they can never be forgiven.

Question: Why do different objects release different sounds when banged or tapped on?
Answer: Because different materials have different makeups, crystaline or non-crystaline structures, densities, volumes, masses and chemical makeups.

Sound travels through an item based on all of these objectives, and the sound that you hear from an impact varies greatly between dropping a bowling ball, and a ball-point pen.

Generally speaking, the more air that is inside an object, such as a hollow beach ball or a soccer ball, is going to make a more hollow smacking sound, while metal ball bearings or larger objects will make a more high pitched or pinging noise. This is due to the fact that sound doesn't travel well through these materials and you just hear the initial impact on the surface, while a beach ball is made of 99% air and the sound echos inside the ball well.

Question: What does checking/unchecking "Treat as an alias" do in gmail?
Answer: When you add an email account to your gmail, you can send and receive messages as that email address. However, this can cause some issues when sending and receiving between your Gmail account and your Alternate account:

1. If you send an email to yourself (e.g. from Gmail - >  Alternate), that message will show up in both your Sent folder and your Inbox, because your Gmail sent the email and your Alternate received an email.
2. If you click "Reply" on an email that got sent from your Alternate email, the "To:" field will be populated with your Gmail address instead of the person who actually sent it.

Unchecking the box "Treat as an alias" fixes these problems. If you intend on using your Gmail to send and receive emails using your Alternate account (i.e., you want to use Gmail instead of your Alternate client and you're not sending email to and from Gmail/Alternate), then you probably want to leave this box checked. If you intend on sending email on behalf of another email account but still want email to work normally between your Gmail and Alternate, then you may want to uncheck this box.

Source: [_URL_0_](_URL_0_)

Question: When our pupils dilate, where does the surrounding iris retreat to if it's outer diameter doesn't change?
Answer: There is a pupillary sphincter muscle that surrounds the pupil. It is this muscle constricting or relaxing that causes the pupil to constrict or dilate. The only part of the iris that moves is the part that is involved with the muscle.

Question: How does the heart receives blod for its cells, I know it is a pump, and it seems inneficient to use the one it is pumping
Answer: The heart pumps blood out to the aorta. From there, some of the blood actually routes back to the heart via 3 major arteries. If any of these 3 get blocked, that is a heart attack.

I'm not sure what you mean by inefficient to use the one it's pumping

Question: How can scientists create measuring tools more accurate than the tools we already have? Doesn't the accuracy of new tools depend on the accuracy of the tools used to make it?
Answer: There are methods for creating accurate without already having an accurate thing.

Like finding the mid-point between two points. Attach a pencil to a string and attach a string to a needle that you stick at point A. As long as the string is more than half the distance to the second point, you can can draw a large arc with it.

Then repeat the process from the other point. There will be two points at which the arcs intersect. If you draw a line between those points and draw another line between the two original points, you will have accurately determined the mid-point using "in-accurate" tools.

Question: Why were pants mainly for men and skirts for women back in the olden days?
Answer: First off, many cultures around the world don't have this distinction - men and women in skirts is normal and they wouldn't understand the fuss. For the western world, trousers came about for practical reasons - they're easier to ride horses with is a big one. Women have kept skirts and dresses as western attitudes on femininity remained stuck with the idea that women can look pretty but don't really need to do anything practical. World War II was a major catalyst for wardrobe changes for women, but 100 years ago the idea of a woman in trousers was as difficult to understand for majority of people as a guy wearing a skirt today.

Up until about 100 years ago, children in the west still wore unisex outfits (think boys in frilly dresses) and even 50 years ago the idea of pink is for girls and blue is for boys didn't exist (historically, red was for men, pink was for boys and blue was for girls - red fabric dye was very expensive, and blue was a cheaper colour to produce).

On a side issue, you'll probably find that women's trousers have the flap covering the fly opening opposite to men's, with the explanation being that men dressed themselves and women were dressed by their maids (except for jeans).

Depending on the shape of the skirt, of course it's better for men, but western society in general has an issue with accepting this. Skirts are simpler to make and can even be warmer than trousers. For women, pants may make more sense than for men but skirts still do too.

Question: If 0.1 amps can be lethal to a human, then why don't I die when touching the contacts of a phone battery, which is 3.8 V and 1500-3200 mA?
Answer: When you touch the contacts of a battery, the current that flows through your body is governed by [Ohms law](_URL_0_).

Because your body, and in particular your skin, has a high electrical resitance, the current that results from a 3.8 Volt potential difference is in the range of micro Amperes, which typically will not register with your nervous system.

The number 1500-3200 that you mention is a measure for how much electrical energy can be stored in the battery, and it is usually expressed in milli Ampere hours (mAh). A capacity of 1500 mAh means that your battery is able to sustain a current of 1500 mA for the duration of one hour before it is depleted. Or 750 mA for a duration of two hours. Or 15 mA for a duration of 100 hours.

Question: The universe either started at one point, or has always been there. How are either possible?
Answer: >  Point 1 seems illogical- it begs the question "what allowed the universe into being"

You are approaching this from a standpoint of absolute reliance on causality. Our brains are wired and designed to think of everything in terms of cause and effect - if there is an effect then we assume there must be a cause. And indeed we constantly observe cause and effect everyday around us. 

But there is no fundamental logical reason why an effect *has* to have a cause. To say "what caused time to start" isn't a meaningful question as in order for something to *cause* something to start, time must exist.

Question: How does the UN General Assembly enforce its decisions?
Answer: It doesn't.  The power to enforce UN resolutions belongs to the UN Security Council, and any of the 5 permanent members (US, Russia, China, UK, and France) can veto any action the security council might take.

Question: What causes internet outages?
Answer: From my personal experience as an internet tech support rep, there are several things that could go wrong. It could be a hardware issue at the central office, or hardware issue in one of the internet boxes for your neighbourhood (DSLAM), it could be the wiring running to your house, copper or fiber, being broken or worn down, it could be the box attached to your house that connects those wires to your modem, it could be your modem or router itself... lots of different issues.

The most common issue would be the modem hasn't been restarted in awhile. Like any piece of smart technology, devices need to be restarted because over time bugs and error codes build up in the memory and bog it down. Restarting devices erases these bugs and gets the system working again.

EDIT: for spelling and grammar.

Question: Why does the USA send billions of dollars to other countries when it's public schools are broke, healthcare is hurting, and infrastructure is crumbling?
Answer: Because humanity is important as a whole. We might have crumbled roads, but some places have none.

Question: What was Hitlers final goal? Was it to conquer all of Europe or just prove that Germany is a superpower not to be dealt with?
Answer: More than anything, Nazi Germany wanted space, or "living room" (aka in German: Lebensraum which translates to living space, but living room I think is easier to understand) to expand the German culture, heritage, and power.

From a practical perspective this meant controlling continental Europe, North Africa, the Caucuses, and Western Russia. All under a single *German* state. This would allow Germany, and Germans plenty of resources and space to spread out and be more productive, as well as cementing Germany as the major world power.

Question: How do ATMs always dispense the crispiest of bills? Even if the bills are years old.
Answer: They can dispense nice-looking bills because that's what they are filled with.  ATMs are filled with money that comes from the bank, and the banks remove worn and damaged bills from circulation.

Question: People who can see other people's aura's.
Answer: Little mix of crazy, too much pot, and some scammers in the mix as well.

Question: Can jury nullification work the other way too? As in, is it possible for a jury to purposely convict a provingly innocent person resulting in a legal conviction?
Answer: No, not in the same way. When a jury rules a man innocent despite the evidence against him, the state can't do anything about it. The Constitution protects him from being tried again for the same crime. That is what creates the institution of "jury nullification"--the acquittal can't be second-guessed.

But when a jury rules a man guilty despite the evidence, a judge *can* rule otherwise. If the jury could not reasonably have reached a guilty verdict given the evidence, it will not stand. Even if the trial judge decides against it, the convict has the opportunity to appeal. Jury verdicts are rarely overturned in this way, but the verdict has to have at least some relation to the evidence, unlike with nullification.

To be sure, a biased jury or judge can do a lot of harm. There are plenty of cases where, to outsiders, the verdict is questionable. But there is an important conceptual difference.

Question: Why did the Nazis house Jews and other minorities in concentration camps instead of simply killing them?
Answer: Nazis housed them for experiments as well as free labor. Many camps also contained political prisoners or intellectuals that they could exploit for information.

This also ties in with the Final Solution, by gathering these undesirables, it made it easier for the Nazi's to systematically execute all of them. They'd use less ammunition, less gas, and less resources than hunting them all in the streets.

Question: Why does Israel spy on the US?
Answer: Everyone spies on everyone as much as they are able if they are smart.

Making decisions requires information. If you don't have correct information then you are less capable of making the right decisions. Therefore if you value making the right decisions then you must also value pursuing accurate information, even if those people with the information don't really want you to know. You see, the people making the decisions swore an oath to their own people and owe it to them to make the right decisions, and they don't owe the people who want to keep secrets anything at all.

This is why everyone has spies of varying ability, even if nobody wants to talk about it.

Question: How come some comments change when I upvote them?
Answer: I think it is because if somebody alters the comment after you've loaded the page, the moment you vote it is selectively updated by javascript in the browser in order to get the vote counted right.

Question: Why do fruits and vegetables always feel cold, even when they should be room temperature?
Answer: How cold things feel to the touch is a reflection of their ability to conduct heat.  Items which are better heat conductors will feel colder, whereas items that don't conduct heat well, will feel less cold.

Put a glass cup, a plastic cup, and a metal cup on your counter and let them all come to room temperature.  The metal one will feel coldest, because it has high heat transfer.  The plastic one will feel least cold, for the opposite reason.

Fruits have a high water content, and so generally conduct heat fairly well.  Thus they feel cold.

Question: Why does a bike balance while its moving?
Answer: Bikes use multiple things that keep the bike up and prevent it from going left to right a lot. The way the front wheel is build it makes the bike turn when you drop towards a side. Now the bike went from falling to turning. And while turning the centrifugal force (which is basically the forward momentum/inertia you mentioned) starts to push you back up. 


What could happen is that you get pushed to the other side and start to wobble. The mentioned angular momentum ( which is basically inertia for turning things, they don't want to change the way they are turning ) dampens the wobble. Even though it won't stop the wobble it makes it easier to handle. And all the friction in the turning parts of the bike and between the wheel and the street will eventually stop it completely. (Or the bike slows down too much and all those effects stop working)

Question: How are nuclear reactions started?
Answer: More or less. Fissile material constantly emits neutrons, but when you only have a small amount of the stuff, most neutrons escape the bulk of the material before meeting another nucleus and causing another fission event. In this case, the neutron emission is only due to spontaneous fission because the material is radioactive. The more of the material you have per unit volume, the more neutrons will cause fission events (because they're more likely to hit another nucleus). Once you have a particular amount of fissile material (the critical mass for that substance) you will cross a threshold such that each neutron, on average, generates more than one extra neutron by causing fission. When this happens, you have a runaway nuclear reaction and you get an explosion.

As an example, one design is the implosion-type weapon. You have a sphere of fissile material that is close to but not at critical mass. When you want the weapon to go off, conventional explosives around the sphere explode, crushing it and bringing it to critical mass (because you now have the same mass, but in a smaller volume). Boom!

Question: What is a SmartGrid and/or MicroGrid? How are they beneficial to the public?
Answer: Microgrids (usually self-sustaining) can power a small area on its own, but also generate and store electricity (usually with large batteries/wind/solar power) and then use that stored energy to pump back into the rest of the large public grid.  This means less power outages and more reliable electricity.

You can check out _URL_0_ for a good breakdown of information and some useful links.

Question: There are always campaigns to "stop global warming". Can we actually stop global warming, or are we just delaying it?
Answer: If everyone in the world was to cooperate, we absolutely could fix it. There's two things that need to happen. One is to replenish our carbon sinks which convert CO2 into oxygen. Basically this means re-planting the world's forests and cleaning up the oceans so the photosynthesizing plankton and algae can return.

The second thing is to get off of fossil fuel energy sources, quickly. Even if we shut off every car and coal power plant in the world tomorrow, it still wouldn't be enough to prevent some pretty serious climate change (and God help us if we keep burning fossil fuels for much longer). This is why we need the carbon sinks, to give us that extra boost. But we need energy, and that's where renewable, clean energy comes in. Solar, wind, and tidal energy all need to be seriously increased and it needs to be done seriously fast.

Question: How are diamonds made from coal?
Answer: Diamonds aren't made from coal and pressure + coal does not make diamonds.   

They're both made from carbon but they are completely different. They don't even form in the same types of rock.  

Coal is dead plants turning into sedimentary rock whereas diamonds are from igneous rock and are formed in the mantle and brought up by volcanic eruptions.

Question: Why have elephants been tamed as war animals in the ancient world but never tamed for domestic things like farming?
Answer: But they have. In certain areas, such as India and SE Asia, they are routinely used for logging in mountainous terrain.
But they eat a whole lot, and the upkeep is prohibitively high relative to the increased power available.

And considering their size, it is much easier for them to do a lot of damage to people, as well as harder to contain, in the event they do get out of control.

Question: Why is eugenics in general considered such a bad thing.
Answer: I'm not entirely sure what you mean, if you say "eugenics". The problems with it seem very obvious to me, if you share my definition, which is to steer human reproduction for the "good of a healthier society". I think my definition more or less fits the one Wikipedia is using. _URL_0_

I guess nobody would be against getting rid of e.g. Parkinson's disease by distributing a vaccination to everyone, but I wouldn't call that eugenics. Eugenics are about the politics of reproduction. And being able to reproduce is a very basic human need AND right, which people shouldn't be able to lose or have it threatened in the name of an abstract collective good. 
 
Eugnics are almost inseperable from totalitarian thought, because there is a strong political element in many cases of deciding what is a good and what is a bad trait. It contradicts the idea of a free individual.

Just think about the different views out there on homosexuality - some people might consider it worthy of being wiped out of the human gene pool. Also topics of racism and social class arise and have also been a very tragic part of the history of eugenics.

It's my first attempt of an ELI5, I hope it was helpful. :)

Question: How are things named?
Answer: There are a lot of ways things get named. 

1. Take its equivalent name in another language. This is what a lot of English is. Chair's origin was from the old french "chaiere".

2. Name it based on its function or origin. "Fireplace", "compact disc", "computer" are named based on their functions or appearances. "Nylon" (New York and London), "Kleenex", "reddit", etc. This is the typical approach with modern words or brand names, with one exception:

3. Be the first to call it something and let it catch on.

People decide what a name is based on who propagates it. Companies market their brand name until it becomes synonymous with its product. Scientists coin new terms and name species and use it until it enters common parlance. Slang is invented and circulated until it becomes part of the local dialect. One thing's for sure, naming is not the responsibility of one person; everyone needs to know it for a name to work!

Question: How do I balance a checkbook?
Answer: 1) Start of the month - Figure out how much money is currently in your bank account

2) Through out the month - Keep track of every expense you use your bank account for (including withdrawals) 

3) End of the Month - Figure out what your ending balance is and return to step 1.

Your checkbook is now balanced.

Question: Why are we restricted by airport customs in the amount of cash we carry?
Answer: There is no such limit.  Above $10,000 you have to declare it to them and fill out a form.  It is to fight money laundering; same as the reporting requirements for large cash transactions at banks.

Question: How to read a woman's measurements?
Answer: Your friend is correct. 

A woman with a bust of 37 inch means that the measurement of their chest going across their breasts is 37 in in circumference. 

The Waist is measured at the belly button (on most people) and if it is 24 that means it is 24 inches in circumference. 

The hips is measured at the fullest (largest) part of the hips and buttocks. It once again is a measurement of circumference. 

The 37-24-35 is very close to the classic hour glass figure which is considered the best ratios to have. Marilyn Monroe for example was 35-22-35.

Question: SPOILER ALERT: Why is "50 Shades of Grey" so controversial?
Answer: It's a book based on a piece of *Twilight* fan fiction written by a random woman with no writing ability whatsoever. 

It's controversial because it displays a serious misunderstanding of S & M, consent,  and healthy romantic relationships, while at the same time is directed at teen girls or younger and has the literary difficulty level of a 2nd graders book.  

In the book,  Christian Grey (called Edward Cullen right up until release) is an stalker and rapist who takes a virgin and terrorizes her into continuing an abusive,  one-sided relationship.   He literally plants a tracking device on her without her consent and threatens her constantly if she ever disobeys him.

In the end,  she "changes his mind",  is supposedly less creepy,  and they live happily ever after.

Question: How Does Vinyl Work?
Answer: As the needle goes around the track it follows a little groove, as it does it moves back and forth a little bit following the path of the groove.  Those little movements create a small amount of voltage commonly using a piezoelectric crystal (a material that creates an electric field when deformed), those small changes in voltage are the music.  Now in order to hear the music those small changes in voltage need to be amplified so that they can drive a speaker and you can do that fairly simply with either modern transistors or in older times vacuum tubes. 

The earliest recording devices used the exact inverse to etch music into wax cylinders by having a microphone feed into a needle that would deflect due to changes in the electric field. The signal you record is the signal you play back if the two methods are mirror images of one another like that.

Question: How does the government track people downloading illegal music?
Answer: I am not aware of any evidence of any western governments tracking 'illegal' downloads.  Most file-sharing is not 'illegal' in the sense of committing a crime that harms society in general (such as theft or assault).  But it does breach copyright laws.  Breach of copyright is a *tort*, a civil crime in which an individual who is wronged can sue for damages.  In order to sue for damages, evidence that meets certain standards must be acquired.  

Large trade organisations, copyright enforcement groups and smaller security firms seeking to earn a quick buck monitor file-sharing downloads in order to obtain the details of participants.

Question: When it comes to the topic of birth defects, what is the difference between a congenital and a genetic condition?
Answer: Genetic describes the source or cause of a condition. Congenital describes the time of onset, that is, present at (or often before) birth.

Note that a congenital condition is not necessarily genetic; it could also refer to an infection, a condition caused by a vitamin deficiency (e.g. spina bifida), exposure to a toxic substance in utero, etc.

Question: Why do I feel tired after eating greasy food?
Answer: More than likely it's just the sheer amount of food that you're eating, not necessarily what it's composed of. You don't feel sluggish after eating broccoli and carrots because you aren't going to eat nearly as much.

Your body just wants you to calm down for a bit while it works on digesting the giant pile of food you just asked it to deal with.

Question: Why is altitude (in regards to aircraft) still measured in feet, rather than metres?
Answer: Standardisation and inertia. The whole world basically agreed to the same sets of rules and measures and even language for flying. There's no real need to go to the expense and hassle of changing it.  

And no, there's no real benefit to measuring altitude in metres instead of feet. The benefit of the metric system is that the whole system is aligned. There's nothing special about a metre that makes it better than a foot. Kilofeet, centifeet etc. would work just as well if they'd been designed that way from scratch.

Question: Non HD movies now in HD
Answer: Movies used to be shot on film for better quality. There is not a lot of movies that was shot in SD as even when digital cameras were available they still used film. It is just relatively recently when you have HD and 4k digital cameras that movies have started shooting digitally. So the SD movies are usually SD scans of much higher quality film. You can therefore easily take out the original film that were shown in theaters and rescan it in HD or even 4k.

Question: If Netflix runs much better over VPN, why doesn't Netflix offer VPN service to their customers?
Answer: If traffic is being throttled from your provider to netflix, it doesn't matter if it is VPN traffic, it will still be throttled.

The point of using a VPN is that you are getting to netflix through a remote gateway on a provider that doesn't throttle netflix.

Question: Why is it that when people shorten 'transgender,' they add an asterisk to it?
Answer: This is a highly educated guess, but I believe it's because an * , in computer lingo, is also a "wild card", meaning that it can take the place of one, or several letters. In this case, the person could be talking about transGENDER or transSEXUAL people, so they shorten it, to trans*

Question: The possibility of the world's nuclear powered submarines surviving an asteroid that would end humanity.
Answer: The strike, sure.

The aftermath, like the loss of all higher life on the planet, not really.  Where would they resupply?  Where would they get more food?  They would be fine, maybe for a year, but is that really "winning" this scenario?

Question: When people become paralyzed, why does it seem common that they retain control of their eyes and eyelids?
Answer: Paralysis is the result of a "disconnect" between your brain and your peripheral nervous system.

[Here is a rear view of your body and major nerves](_URL_0_).

The majority of paralysis cases are the result of traumatic injury to the spinal cord, which severs nerve connections.

An injury to the lower thoracic or lumbar vertebra usually results in paraplegia (can't move legs) because the nerves that innervate your legs can no longer communicate with the central nervous system (brain  &  spine), but everything above the waist still can.

A higher injury (upper thoracic or cervical vertebra) often results in quadriplegia (can't move arms or legs) because (look at the diagram again) the majority of your PNS nerves connect to the spinal cord below the neck region.

This is also why it is very uncommon for someone to be paralyzed in the upper body region (can't move arms) while still being able to control their legs.

In order to lose eye control there would have to be an injury traumatic enough to sever nerve connections within the skull. This would more than likely result in death.

It could happen as a result of brain damage, infection, hereditary conditions, nerve degenetation, etc. but again, since most cases of paralysis are the result of injury, these cases aren't seen nearly as often.

Locked in syndrome is a result of brain damage, so it's a bit more difficult to predict the outcome of cases like this. It all depends on exactly what neural pathways are affected and to what extent.

Question: P versus NP and the effect(s) on the world that would come from it being solved
Answer: Without getting into theoretical computer science too much, P is the class of problems that are "easy" to solve, and NP is the class of problems that may or may not be easy to solve, but are at least easy to verify.  And by "easy" we mean that the best-known algorithm (process) for doing it scales well with the size of the problem.

Adding two numbers together is easy.  When adding numbers that are *n* digits long, you only need *n* steps.  Adding numbers that are 10 times larger only takes 1 additional step.  Adding numbers that are a million times larger only takes 6 additional steps.  So that scales really well with the size of the problem.

Finding a solution to the knapsack problem ("here's a bunch of objects weighing different amounts, find me a subset of them that weighs exactly 10 pounds") is really hard.  All you can really do is try every combination until you find one that works, or you go through all of the possibilities and find that nothing works.  But verifying a solution is easy--you just add to see that it works, and adding is easy.

But why is the knapsack problem hard?  Is there something fundamental about the laws of mathematics that demands that there's no good solution?  Or have we as humans just not been clever enough to think of a better way?  Over time, lots of problems that we used to think were hard have turned out to be easy because someone came up with a better solution, so people got thinking that maybe all of the NP problems are actually in P.

If it turns out that P=NP, then there are a whole bunch of problems that people think are hard that are actually easy.  Most modern cryptography systems would end up being broken, because they're based on some of these problems that we assume are hard.

If it turns out that P does not equal NP (which is what everybody assumes is the case), then nothing really changes.

Question: What advantage to companies have for focusing on short term stock gains?
Answer: From the perspective of the board of directors, and the "company itself" the single measure of success of the company is shareholder value.  In fact, a focus on _anything other than that_ is a shirking of legal responsibility of a board member.

So...thats the starting point. If your shareholders are frustrated that it's taking too long to get them return, then you aren't doing your job very well and you _must make a change_.  This is to say that when this occurs, the company is not doing a good job.  Period.  

This isn't to say that you aren't right - that they are being short sighted and might regret it later, or might create more shareholder return on a longer time continuum if they could escape the "pressure" of quarter announcements.  

Further, while I generally embrace cynicism and there is a lot of poor management in the world, do remember that the people doing the analysis  are pretty smart and pretty experienced.  Notably the best companies can create both short and long term value and when either of those aren't happening they should make adjustments.  It's generally considered "burying your head in the sand" to say "the stuff we've got coming out next year is really gonna save us" - the market is right to look for management of the finances of the businesses in ways that hedge against that risky stance.

Question: what causes nail biting and why is it such a difficult habit to break?
Answer: Someone correct me if I'm wrong, but I think the chewing action of the jaw (when biting nails) releases endorphins (not sure why), which causes a positive feeling in your brain - this mainly happens when you are anxious, so your body is trying to find a way to relieve or comfort itself. It's also why some people find chewing gum (or to extreme cases, overconsumption of food) helps them relax.

This becomes addictive not only because of those endorphins, but because you chew your nails it causes them to have a very rugged, imperfect shape. Most people who commonly chew nails (not out of anxiety) tend to show some symptoms of OCD, which means that they want to keep their nails in a symmetrical pretty shape, which causes their "perfectionism" to not stop biting until the nails look decent (of course, when they grow back they are still rugged, so this cycle continues).

Question: Why are boneless wings even called wings?
Answer: Because you can't walk into a restaurant and order 20 pieces of "that bomb ass shit".

Question: How do people "fail" to commit suicide?
Answer: Gun jams, rope snaps, they land into a truck of pillows and cake, etc.

Question: why is cursive writing the default writing style in Russia but phasing out in English?
Answer: It is easier to write Cyrillic in cursive than in print. Д for example is annoying as fuck to write in print for example. Some people write in a mixed fashion with some parts cursive and some parts written.

Source: Know a Cyrillic language.

Question: why are these hot ass teachers hooking up with funny looking kids?
Answer: Because they are pedophiles and mentally ill.  They are turned on not by the looks of the student, but by the teacher's position of authority over the student, and the innocence, naïveté, or "freshness" of the sexuality of a young teen.

Question: Why is everyone cautions about Salmonella, but sushi is okay?
Answer: Raw fish in sushi, called *sashimi*, can indeed contain bacteria or parasites. To get rid of parasites, some countries have laws saying that you must freeze the fish at [253 K](_URL_0_) for many hours. Many parasites freeze to death at such low temperatures. 

However, other foods, like ground beef, often do not have such laws about freezing, so there can be bacteria or parasites that survive.

Question: Why is noon 12PM rather than being 12AM?
Answer: AM means  ante meridiem or before midday.  So 12am is 12 hours before midday.

PM means post meridiem or after midday.

Question: Computer Triggers
Answer: It's very likely event driven: There's a complex system in the computer kind of like a post office.

The health pack sends mail to the post office. The post office decides what order to do things (usually in order) but can pause everything if needed.

If things go smoothly the post office sends mail to the player's health. When the player's health gets the mail it updates it for you.

This all happens in a fraction of a second though, so it seems instantaneous with no break to your mailed commands to tell the character to keep moving forward.

(Also note that technically the post office does use an infinite loop to check for updates.)

Question: What are viruses, exactly? Why do they exist?
Answer: Viruses classically fall under a couple different vague families: trojans, adware, spyware and worms. Over time, it has become harder and harder to classify a virus under any one of these families, as they've grown in complexity to the point where they often are all of these things.

The first one was written to map the internet; the first worm, designed to travel from server to server and report back. This experiment, as you can guess, didn't end as expected, when he ended up choking the Internet rather than map it.

The vast majority fulfil one of several fraudulent roles:

* DDoS: Your computer is opened up to receive attack requests, in which it will join a larger effort to drive massive traffic at a server to prevent it from responding to legitimate queries.

* Spam: Your computer is opened up to send out spam emails, covering the identity of the origin of the message.

* Trojan/Rootkit: Usually a more script-kiddie oriented virus, it is usually used to pester or torment the user needlessly. They seem remarkably unproductive. Frequently can make a computer unusable.

* Spyware: Watches your movements, usually with the goal of stealing login information and credit card numbers.

* Adware: Designed for one of two purposes: to display ads to the infected user for revenue, or to hijack the computer and use it provide false impressions/clicks on existing ad sources. Usually the later, as the former tends to be noticed.

* Ransomware: A new variant, known for encrypting files and demanding payment to release them. There are other methods, but this is the most common/effective.

* Worm: A virulent virus, usually with none of the above payloads. Designed to spread, not damage, but tends to do so as it consumes resources.

They exist because someone wanted to write one, usually with the goal of making money, despite the difficulties in actually obtaining that money, as ad revenue is pathetically low and credit card fraud is harder than it seems.

Question: What is the difference between being intelligent and being intellectual?
Answer: To be an intellectual you have to be interested in certain things: art, politics, philosophy, science. Plenty of smart people don't give a hoot about those things, but interest in them tends to track with intelligence.

Question: Trying to understand vitamin D. There is a LOT of conflicting information out there. How many mins in sunlight do I need per day. Does it count if it comes in the window or if I am outside but in shade? I read somewhere that it washes off??? Please enlighten me!!!
Answer: I cant answer your other questions, but you cant wash away vitamins absorbed by your skin. That would require some serious osmosis, and isnt achieved by a swim or a regular bath. No science to back up my claims. Always research trusted sources.

Question: Why do most cartoon characters have four fingers on each hand instead of five?
Answer: Easier and faster to draw, and because early animators (Disney, Warner Bros) dit it, it was adopted as the style.  Some cartoons do not do this, most recently noted in the AdultSwim show "Rick and Morty" where characters sport all 5 normal digits.

*EDIT: I accidentally a words there.

Question: How do you make/manufacture glitter?
Answer: Colored foil and lots of little kids with scissors in china.

Question: If you got to build a machine that can throw coins the same way everytime, from the same height, in a controlled space, with no wind and with milimetric precission, would the coin always land the same face?
Answer: A team at Stanford did exactly that while investigating how random a coin toss is, building a machine that tossed coins so that they always landed the way they started. Put the coin in the machine heads-up and it would land as heads 100% of the time (or at least in 100% of their tests).

They also concluded that a normal coin toss by a human isn't quite fair, and will land the way it started 51% of the time.

Question: Is there a difference in reading from a book and reading online material? why does it appear that people who read a lot of books have a deeper knowledge than people who spend time reading online?
Answer: There's not going to be one definitive answer to this question---and a lot of the difference is based on outdated stereotypes about what it means to be smart. 

However, there is an important difference between spending a lot of time reading books and spending a lot of time "reading" online: focus. 

Unless you just happen to be reading digital copies of books, reading books requires more focus and attention than reading online.  

Most people who are reading online are reading dozens of different posts on different topics, with various levels of quality control and depth.  

By contrast, spending the same amount of time reading books implies engagement with some substantial part of all of the materials relevant to a topic---since you had to pick that one book for a reason, as opposed to whatever an aggregator selected.  Books themselves are also more likely to deal with a particular topic in depth, and if you are reading "good" books, are likely to have gone through a great deal more rigorous vetting and review.

Question: Why are streaming services offering such widely different content based on the country like netflix in Sweden vs usa.
Answer: Streaming services have to pay the content providers a licensing fee for each separate market (country) so it's primarily an economic decision - will they make enough money out of having that particular show, etc available in that particular market to justify the cost.

But sometimes there are local laws that might prevent something - for example (I don't know if this is true or not) but Game of Thrones might be a bit too risque for certain markets.

There can also be competing licensing agreements. For example HBO might sell Game of Thrones to the local Swedish cable company with exclusive rights so it's not made available through streaming services.

This actually happened with Orange is the New Black when Netflix launched in Australia - Netflix wasn't allowed to show to current season **of their own show** because they'd already signed a contract with our cable TV company for exclusive rights.

Question: Why did my black goldfish turn orange?
Answer: You could've just googled it, but here's my five cents. Source: Had lots of goldfish in my garden pond when I was younger. Goldfish hatch black and turn orange during the first years of their life. Some of them are "early" developers and turn gold within their second year, some of them take five years, occasionally even longer. And very few of them never turn gold. So that one fish of you just was a bit late, nothing wrong with that.

Question: Why do special effects and CGI cost so much money?
Answer: It's not just a program. It's the team of people needed to use those programs. Within the CG world, people tend to specialize. There are modelers, animators, texture and lighting people, compositors who put effects into footage, and so on. Each of those elements is hugely difficult and typically requires years of training to get to a professional level. Each of those people is a professional who receives a professional's salary for their expertise at what they do, and the long-ass hours they put in to do it. Plus, CG effects take a lot of processing power to properly render; you're looking at a lot of hardware, including huge render farms filled with computers tasked with taking those professionals' raw output and rendering it out as movie frames. There's a lot going on behind the effects you see in movies, even the short or simple ones that you don't even really notice.

Source: SO is a 3D modeler. That shit's hard.

Question: Why don't they make 2 liter soda bottles rectangular?
Answer: Storage containers for items under pressure (soda, propane), are round because the items inside are pushing outward. Corners and seams are weak points, so a round shape minimizes those places, to help prevent blowouts.

Question: How do scratch and sniff stickers work
Answer: An adhesive mixed with an ester (a chemical that can smell like various organic substances, such as strawberries) is stuck onto a piece of paper. Then, the smelly area is sprayed with an easily-scratched substance, which also blocks the scent until the smelly patch is uncovered.

Question: Why does sleeping feel so good shortly after waking up?
Answer: During sleep, a horomone called melatonin is released throughout the night to induce a relaxing sensation throughout the body. Once the body is triggered to wake up (I.e. sunlight or an alarm clock) the body stops producing melatonin. The problem is that even though melatonin is not being produced anymore, the remaining melatonin in the body lingers for about 35-50 min which is the half-life of melatonin.

Edit: since im the top post which is awesome sauce btw!, ill add some info 

Melatonin production is halted by blue light, thats why it is beneficial to use a program like f.lux to reduce blue light from electronic screens

Melatonin has little to no role in depression, depression normally has to do with neurotransmitters in the CNS

Source: Endocrine class I took

Question: How does cat litter work
Answer: It's also conditioning. We teach them that this is where they go and since they naturally want to bury their droppings it works for everyone

Question: A presidential pardon decades after death
Answer: Basically it's just to officially acknowledge that the person was innocent.  It brings some justice to the family

Question: Why does blood go to someone's mouth when they're stabbed? Is this a real thing that happens?
Answer: Well if they are stabbed in the lung it would fill with blood and they would be forced to cough it up, same if their intestines were punctured blood would eventually make it to the mouth

Question: How can American Airlines file for bankruptcy but continue to buy brand new planes?
Answer: They're in Chapter 11 bankruptcy. In a Chapter 11, a business continues to operate as usual, it just goes through a judicial proceeding to create a "plan" to restructure its debt.

There are certain restrictions on what a business in Chapter 11 can or can't do, but for the most part it's business as usual.

Question: What is the science behind ICBMs?
Answer: The B stands for Ballistic, which means that the missile is boosted by rockets to a high altitude, then falls back down unpowered at an extremely high speed - something like 7 km (4.3 miles) per *second*. The sheer speed, combined with the lack of flames out the back, makes an ICBM extremely hard to track and intercept, by design. 

So the missile itself is fairly simple in principle, but getting it all to work is harder. If the missile's trajectory is set correctly during the boost phase, it means little or no correction is required during the terminal phase. Modern ICBMs have multiple independently-targeted re-entry vehicles - MIRVs  -which separate from the missile and have their own rockets and guidance systems. 

The sheer speed of re-entry can't be over-stated. At 7 km/s, that means the warhead goes from 14 km up - 46,000 ft, higher than any commercial airliner - to the ground, in *two seconds*.

Question: Why U.S. conservatives are so against abortion but generally the first to gripe about families with multiple children on welfare.
Answer: Because they are honoring a set of principles:

1. the fetus deserves protection as a living thing.
2. it's not fair to others to create economic advantage for some without the hard work put in by the rest of us.

You too have principles that result in "tension" - where upholding one leads to pushing against another.  For example, I believe as an entrepreneur that I ought to be able to create a company like I want to and hire people that I want to hire and pay them what I want to.  I also believe we need to have an organized system of immigration - these things are total odds.  I also believe that we need to protect rights of those who have been historically screwed and that I shouldn't be allowed to only hire white men like myself beyond some point.  Tension.  Part of political life.  

You're asking of those you disagree with to meet a bar of consistency based entirely on your framing of the issues.  These are independent considerations based on primary principles to one audience, and thinking of it as "stupidity" doesn't further our ability to find common ground.

Question: How and why does fever cause dehydration?
Answer: A fever is a consequence of the body fighting an invader.  Many pathogens can thrive at normal body temperature, but they break down and die at slightly higher temperatures.

Much like when exercising, the energy used increases body temperature which causes sweating and water vapor to be exhaled from the lungs.

Many fever inducing diseases cause diarrhea and increased mucus production also, which releases water from the body.  All that has to be replenished.

(not an actual doctor)

Question: how long does foreclosure take?
Answer: Depends on the state, the loan documents, and whether any payments/work out attempts were made.  Typically, people don't just stop paying intitially, and when the bank starts the process, state law mandates how many times and how frequently the sale must be advertised.  Further, some states require a judicial finding prior to the completion of the process.  Lastly, they may have filed bankruptcy, which delays the process until a motion to lift stay is granted.

No, I'm not a lawyer, but I did spend the night at a Holiday Inn Express

Question: The theory that drinking *more* alcohol will cure a hangover.
Answer: Hair of the Dog, as it's called. It's simple. You get drunk enough to not feel the pain of the hangover. Physically, your brain stem is still dehydrated. You've addressed the symptoms, but not the cause.

Question: How can states legalize marijuana when using/having it is a federal offence?
Answer: Through the 10th amendment. Powers not expressly delegated to the federal government in the constitution are reserved for the states. The only way to (legally) grant the federal government additional powers is by constitutional amendment. States with marijuana initiatives are asserting that the federal drug laws are unconstitutional since there was never an amendment to the constitution (as there was with alcohol prohibition) and are reasserting their state sovereignty on that issue.

Question: Why is so common in the NFL to make the Super Bowl or at least make the Playoffs without making the Playoffs the previous year as opposed to the NBA?
Answer: 1. Football is a more team oriented sport. A good Quarterback can't do much on his own, nor can a good Cornerback prevent an entire team from scoring.

2. You're only competing against 3 other teams for an "easy" playoff spot, since the top teams from each division automatically make it to the playoffs. And then you have two wildcard spots in the primary conferences. While a smaller percentage of teams get in (12 out of 32, vs 16 out of 30), you have less local competition.

3. There's only 16 games in a season (vs the 82 in the NBA), so each game counts for more. A few lucky wins for your team or bad losses for your rivals influences your playoff chances more.

Question: Why does the water pressure increase when a container of water is moved higher?
Answer: Pressure is defined as Force / Area, or:

P = F / A

When you increase the force, that increases pressure (straightforward).  But if you spread that same force out over a larger area, you decrease the force at any given point, meaning lower pressure.

Let's assume for your question that you have a container of water attached to the top end of a hose (or pipe), and you want to measure the pressure at the bottom end of that hose.

Let's also assume that you're not moving the container vertically enough for changes in air pressure or gravity to be significant. So, the pressure of water at the container's opening will be basically equal no matter whether it's at ground level or you move it hundreds of meters into the sky (like a water tower)

For this system, any additional water pressure is being caused by the force of gravity acting over the length of the hose. And the force of gravity only acts vertically. So if a long hose attached to the container is slack, it's roughly equivalent to a smaller hose that goes more directly between the water container and the end.

(I say roughly equivalent because the longer hose will add some extra friction, but will be a small decrease in pressure since water flows easily)

The important variable here is the height difference over which gravity can act, which you change anytime you move the container higher.

In our original definition we see that P = F / A.  How does height relate to this, specifically?

Newton's second law:  Force = mass * acceleration , F= m * a -- and in this case the acceleration is gravity, usually represented by g

P = m * g / A

Water has a uniform density, so the mass, m is equivalent to density * volume.

P = d * v * g / A

Now for gravity we only care about what's happening vertically.  We ignore any horizontal displacement between the container's end of the hose and the other end of the hose, because it doesn't matter for gravity -- it only matters for friction, which as we said is a small effect since water flows easily.

Thus, we can pretend that our hose is a straight **vertical** cylinder between the water container and however far the end is below it.  The volume, v of a cylinder is  height *  circle area,  or h * A.     

P = d * h * A * g / A

The A at the top of the hose, where the original force (of the water that's inside the container) is being exerted, is equivalent to the A at the bottom of the hose, so these A's cancel.

P = d * h * g

Density and gravity are constant, so the only variable affecting your pressure is the height of the hose, i.e. the height you put the container at.

This is how a water tower works.

Question: If Radio waves are omni-directional, why does a station go from clear to garbled and back again in a matter of inches?
Answer: The cause is **multipath interference**.

Radio waves reflect off of things like buildings and the ground. As the waves expand out from the transmitter, part of the signal gets reflected and part travels directly to your receiver. The reflected part travels a longer path than the direct part so it when it arrives at the receiver it's out of phase with the direct part. Because the signal is a repeating wave, *sometimes* the reflected part is perfectly opposite phase as the direct part and it cancels the direct part out. Most of the time it's somewhere in between which doesn't totally cancel but interferes with it.

Question: Why are .jpg's so bad?
Answer: Jpeg is good for for photographs or other things that have lots of subtly different color gradients, but aren't great for things like logos or line drawings, or other things with sharp color transitions, or things that require transparancy, which jpeg doesn't support.

Use JPEG for photographs and PNG for logos or drawings.

Question: why can't we bring in sealed beverages through TSA checkpoints but we can buy those same beverages on the other side at 200% markup?
Answer: For the fear that you might have sealed the beverage yourself and it might actually contain gasoline or other dangerous substances instead of an actual can of coke.

Question: How do generations work?
Answer: A generation is an arbitrary grouping of births between certain dates, usually determined after the generation has peaked to describe their sociopolitical outlook or major events in world history.

The Lost Generation are those born at the end of the 19th Century, who would have fought in World War I.

The Greatest Generation (or the GI Generation) was people who were born around the turn of the 20th century, describing those who lived through the Great Depression, who would have also been young enough to serve in World War II.

The Silent Generation are those born during the Depression or War, but were not old enough to fight. This generation fought in Korea, and are largely forgotten because of the "importance" of the Baby Boom.

Baby Boomers were the generation born right after the end of World War II, which became a boom in population after the losses of war and depression.

Generation X were those born after the Boomers, who grew up with growing television media.

And Millennials were those born after the advent of strong personal computing.

Likely, the post-Millennials will be defined by the use of social media.

Question: How can we feel tense / bad atmospheres in certain places?
Answer: It's a purely psychological effect. The "atmosphere" isn't real, but lots of symptoms are -- these can include an odd smell, an unusual quiet, the presence of nervous-acting people, or objects arranged in a manner that's unusually messed up or unusually tidied up.

Question: If drawing Mohammed is disliked in the muslim community because one should not attempt to capture god's work in such a way, how come it is ok for so many to name their children mohammed?
Answer: Islam is very against idols. It is okay to name your child in hope that they will share similar attributes, but depiction leads to false idols. So Christianity with their statues of saints would be considered to be promoting gods other than god.

Question: Why does Islam prohibit the consumption of pork?
Answer: Pigs can pose a considerable health risk and are not always safe to eat. Officially they're unclean animals, but the more probable and sane reason behind banning the consumption would be to try to discourage people from eating things that'll make them sick. Undercooked pork can be very dangerous if the pig was carrying parasites like trichinosis,  which can cause vomiting, nausea, diarrhea etc - things you don't want in arid climates. Moreover, pigs digest things VERY quickly and don't always properly get rid of toxins and other stuff we don't want in us.

As far as I know the European climate didn't make these health risks as prominent for the Europeans so eating pork isn't forbidden in Christianity unlike it's two other Abrahamic counterparts.

Question: safest position to take in an electrical storm
Answer: If there is no possibility of shelter, I believe the best advice is to crouch down, as low as possible, arms round knees so you're presenting a round profile.  That prevents any narrow projections that concentrate charge.  Remember that the leader goes upwards first.   Feet together so there is only one small area of contact with the ground.  If a strike hits nearby, there can be a charge gradient across the ground which would preferentially go through you if you had spaced out points of contact.

Question: What is the difference between the credit card choices (MasterCard, Visa, American Express?)
Answer: One difference is:  
Visa starts with 4xxx  
MasterCard with 5xxx  
and Amex with 3xxx, usually 37xx

Question: If Anxiety is just the response to danger manifested by producing adrenaline (Epinephrine), why is it not possible to create drugs that stops production of Epinephrine?
Answer: MD here. 

In general anxiety has lots of causes(genetic factors, substance abuse, injuty etc.) but all of them lead to neurotransmitters inbalance(norepinephrine, serotonin, dopamine).
To treat this imbalance we use mainly antidepressants(they inhibit destroy of neurotransmitters therefore bringing back the balance).
We also use bensodiasepines for acute panic attacks to slow down our central nervous system by increasing GABA in CNS(that's a type of slowing neurotransmitter).
Cognitive behavioral therapy is the third(and effective) option of treatment.

For your question.
There are drugs that block epi receptors in tissues(blood vessels, heart, uterus, bronchi).
But these receptors are crucial for survival(speeding up the heart, constricting blood vessels, dilating bronchi) so blocking them in otherwise healthy human can cause them to even die.  So that's not an option.

Sorry for my English(not native language).

Question: Stock prices
Answer: The stock market is very complex, so I'm going to address your questions individually.

Changes in price are driven by the market, it's purely "what it's worth". This is both in terms of a share of the company (and it's worth) or what others are willing to pay for a stock.

No one determines the price, the market does. You can sell stock at a non-market price (most commonly seen in "dumping" where a big holder wants to turn stocks into cash as soon as possible, even if it's not sold at 100% what it's worth). You can try selling higher, but who the heck would pay more for something they could buy cheaper anywhere else? Most of the time, shares trade at market price.

A stock doing well can fall if the company itself devalues, or even if the outlook for future performance is poor (EX: a company makes guns, and new gun laws were passed which would hurt business. Even though the company is doing as well as ever, the future threat makes it worth less today).

A company does set it's own value, at least at IPO time. They decide a worth, and a number of shares to issue. Worth divided by shares=price. After that, market forces come into play. Changes in the company's value (profits/losses) change the stock price. Demand can change the price as well, since it's only worth what someone is willing to pay for it. Say all shares are sold, and the company is doing well, so people want those shares. They will likely be sold at more than they are "worth" as a share of the company's value, because the future value of the stock is worth paying a bit extra for today, and the buyer would have no incentive to sell otherwise.

Question: Why can authorities seize the .se ccTLD for The Pirate Bay but not the .org gTLD?
Answer: Different TLDs follow different countries' rules. In both Sweden and the US, the government isn't allowed to arbitrarily seize domain names- they have to follow some procedure, probably involving the courts, to do so. Swedish law and legal procedure allowed the government to get an order to seize the .se domain. US laws did not allow them to seize the .org domain.

Question: Fundamental differences that set us apart from other animals?
Answer: Humans are the only species who can understand abstract information. For example I could point to a door and tell you what is on the other side of it. You would understand without having to open the door. You would know if it was safe to open the door.  No other species has this ability, yet all human cultures have this ability.
The only other exclusively human trait I can think of, is the ability to control fire.

Question: Why do people become workaholics?
Answer: I have been working 60 hr weeks the last two months. Took a 4 day weekend and spent half the time on phone calls for work. I don't know why...

Question: Why would male public toilets in America start being raised 6-10 inches?
Answer: In 1990 the Americans with Disabilities Act was put into place to make accommodations for people with mental and physical disabilities. Over the years, there have been a few amendments to this act. Businesses and other public places must stay updated with the rules of this act when they want to remodel or make other changes to their properties.

Question: Why aren't insects as scared of humans as squirrels, birds, and other wild animals?
Answer: Most insects never interact with humans. Why would they need to be instinctively afraid?

Also, many species do run away when confronted head on by your menacing fingertips. Try it with black ants.

Question: How does the laser/photon cannon work? (Apparently installed on the USS Ponce)
Answer: This is a late night post.

A laser focuses the light. It energizes the photons and then once they have enough energy, they get released in a certain direction.
The damaging part of these photons are:

1. The energy they carry transfers to heat when hitting a missile, or craft. Both need aerodynamics to work. Missile may have explosive ordinance on board...... As might the craft these days.

2. The intensity of the beam. The laser isn't your regular pointing laser. The lasers you see firing are using MASSIVE chemical batteries to energize the photons and "fire" them.

3. Advanced guidance systems keep the beam on one spot (relatively) enough to heat the material enough to cause structural deficiencies and air pressure/friction does the rest.


Did... Did that help? First ELI5 answer I ever answered.

Ninja edit: I am just a dude that likes technology. If I am wrong, feel more then free to correct me.

Question: Theorems, Postulates, and Laws...what's the difference?
Answer: A theorem is a mathematical statement (think "something or the other *equals* something else"; for example, the Pythagorean theorem, where a^2 + b^2 = c^2) that has been proven to be true using lots of methods. So for example, I could state a "theorem" that little Johnny has been stealing and eating cookies again, and I could prove it by pointing to the cookie crumbs all over his hands and fingers; or maybe by his fingerprints on the cookie jar; or perhaps how upset his tummy is since he spoiled his appetite; or maybe asking little Tommy, whom I know was watching the cookie jar the entire day, who stole the cookies.

A postulate, also known as an axiom, is another statement which you can just *assume* to be true, since it seems so obvious and intuitive. No proof is needed. So for example. Let's say that Johnny accuses of Tommy of stealing cookies too. If I know that Tommy ALWAYS just goes along with Johnny's mischief, I may just assume that in this instance Tommy stole cookies too, even though I haven't checked for any crumbs on his face and I didn't look for his fingerprints on the jar.

Finally, a law is a special type of statement. It's a general sort of idea that talks about a basic, defining principle of science, that just about everyone agrees on and has been proven true through reasoning. Normally there's some kind of "if this, then that" sort of phrasing to it; laws are very "cause and effect." So perhaps after months of asking Tommy to watch the cookie jar, and coming back to find it empty and both boys stuffed full of cookies, and me and all the neighbors have seen this happen time and time again in any situation where Tommy is guarding any cookie jar, *perhaps then* my neighbors and I can come up with a law saying, "If I allow Tommy to watch the cookie jar, then both Tommy and Johnny are going to steal and eat all the cookies inside."

Question: Okay, what happened to spark the massive battle on Eve Online this time?
Answer: I believe someone forgot to pay the rent on a system and when another group came in to claim it, the original group that forgot to pay the rent started fighting them. And...yeah. It's become what it is now.

Question: How does the human body tell when it's thirsty?
Answer: Through a complicated systems that are connected to the kidneys (RAAS), the brain, and individual cells that are dehydrated. 

Cells will send signals to the brain, which then signals the kidneys to reuptake fluids. But that's as simple as I can explain it. Maybe someone else can do better.

Question: How do services like Pandora and Spotify work
Answer: same way any business operates.  sell it for more than you buy it.

if it costs $10,000 for Pandora to buy the rights for a song, and they play it on 1million users and get advertising $0.01 per play,  then that's profit.

Question: Why can't we create a suit or apparatus that allows us to fly like birds?
Answer: Extremely unlikely. For starters, our bodies are just too heavy. Birds evolved for flight by reducing their mass and streamlining efficiency in their systems. The term 'hollow bones' is a bit of a misnomer (they're not really hollow) but it reflects how much lighter their bones are. Their musculature is also more resilient to fatigue compared to humans, and their lungs are significantly more efficient. As humans, we're just too heavy, and such a frame would require enormous wings that would likely tear itself apart due to the necessity of a light-weight construction. Mechanical flapping would require an energy source, which would only add more weight to the contraption.

Perhaps one day in the future with better construction materials, but I imagine it'd be easier to find alternative means to personal flight than a flying suit.

Question: How does the music industry still make the same amount of money when actual record sales are at an all time low?
Answer: They don't spend as much money on recordings. That's why the studio business is almost dead. 

The labels also didn't used to get a cut of touring or shows at all... now it's the norm for a "360 deal" where the label doesn't just sell records, they take over the artist's brand and take a cut of everything. 

Meanwhile licensing has become more lucrative. Every time you hear a song played on TV, in public, a stadium, etc, someone is getting paid. We go to more events, watch more videos and tv than ever... so that's good for the licensing business. 

The music industry is still growing. They just don't do it on the back of record sales.

Question: What is it in peoples genetic makeup that makes things like weight problems hereditary?
Answer: For the vast, vast, vast majority: nothing.

Weight problems weren't "hereditary" until the last 50 years or so, and amazingly, they still aren't "hereditary" in the third world. Truly shocking.

Human metabolisms don't vary by more than a few percentage points (accounting for obvious things like sex/height/etc).

Everyone has that one friend who supposedly eats a ton but never gains weight, and they have that one friend who eats "omg so healthy" but looks like a blimp. These are not exceptions. People are just really, really bad at estimating how much they themselves eat, and even worse at estimating how much others eat.

Thyroid issues don't make people obese, either. They usually only account for a ~5% difference if untreated and a 0~1% difference if treated.

The only reason fat parents tend to have fat kids is because they instill bad eating habits and don't teach the concept of delayed gratification to their children.

Question: What does it mean to be transgender?
Answer: It's when a person has a mismatch between the gender of their personality (the gender that they identify themselves with) and their physical gender.  It is not defined by their gender role (ie, a stay-at-home dad is not a transgender just by virtue of his daily activities), but by their emotional identity.

I'd be interested to find out if there's such a thing as a transgendered heterosexual (?).  Like, is there such a thing as a transgender man that identifies himself as a woman but is still attracted to women?  Like a lesbian trapped in a man's body?

Question: What is causing the distorted peripheral vision when looking at this gif? (gif in text)
Answer: **Your eyes like change.**

The effect in this illusion is based on the fact that your visual cortex, the vision center of your brain, is always trying to find new information. Information that is determined to not be new is essentially ignored. This **habituation**, as it's called, occurs even over very short durations. Your visual cortex determines that what it's seeing is "normal" and it expects that to stay the same. When that "normal" becomes something different, your brain **exaggerates the difference** between its perceived "normal" and what you're actually seeing.

You'll notice that there is a lot of variance in the shapes of the faces you see and the shape and size of the features. When your brain adapts to a person with a round, thin face, if the next person has a wide, square face then it looks even wider and squarer.

If a nose is slightly crooked in one image, it will look crooked the opposite direction in the next image, because your brain expects "crooked to the left" to be normal. Anything that is not "crooked to the left" must be crooked to the right.

It occurs when you're looking at the dot cross because **moving your eyes resets this effect** (which is why it doesn't happen in everyday life), and because **your peripheral vision is better at determining general shapes rather than details**. Your peripheral vision looks at the general shapes of these faces and warps your perception to match those general shapes to what it expects them to be. If those faces were right in front of you, it would be 1) harder to keep your eyes focused on one point because of all the dramatic change directly around that point, and 2) easier for your brain to look at the details and adapt to the differences.

- - -
It should be noted that this habituation effect also contributes to the reason why illusions such as [**inverted color illusions**](_URL_0_) work (notice that when you move your vision the color goes away). Your brain adjusts to the colors, and when they change suddenly your brain exaggerates the difference.

Question: Why do Catholics think fish are not made of meat
Answer: The main reason for why fish was eaten when Lent first happened was that meat from animals like cows was considered a privileged food as it cost more money than vegetables; however, fish was easily obtained and was a lesser price of a meal.

Question: What is the observer effect? Does light really know when we are observing it and change behaviour depending on it?
Answer: In physics, an "observer" is anything that interacts with a quantum object.  For instance, when a photon hits your desk, the desk "observes" the photon.  So the observer effect just has to do with whether anything is interacting with the photon.

Question: Why do suburbs in general have less crime than cities?
Answer: Suburbs were developed with housing additions specifically targeted to bring middle class families from the cities. As a result, the suburbs often have fewer poor people than the cities. And crime rates are usually a function of poverty rates.

Question: Why do I find spiders in my sinks and shower tub more than any other location of my house?
Answer: I can't remember where, but I read somewhere that they go to places that make them easy to spot for a potential mate.

If they are confident enough that there are no threats, they will climb out of their hiding places and sit still in an open space with high contrast so that they can be easily spotted.

in short, they climb into the bathtub because they are horny.

Question: EL5 the difference between Alzheimers and dementia.
Answer: Dementia is the generic term for "losing your mind". It can result from many causes, including trauma, oxygen deprivation, strokes, etc, as well as various diseases. Patients with Alzheimer's disease commonly present with dementia as a symptom.

Question: Why are our bodies warm ?
Answer: The chemical reactions that allow our cells to function are exothermic (they produce heat).  Our body essentially burns sugars to produce usable energy.  And "burns" isn't a metaphor:  it's the same chemical reaction as lighting something on fire (it's the reason that we need to breathe oxygen), just very tightly controlled.

Question: why do I get "chills" all over my body when I see or hear something beautiful?  Moreover, what are those chills and why aren't they just felt all the time?
Answer: Frisson is the sudden feeling of excitement. There is a subreddit for it  _URL_0_


Quoted from their sidebar "Have you ever felt a sudden, passing sensation of excitement, a shudder of emotion from an epic moment of a song, or a climax of a movie? That is what is called "frisson". It has been linked to rises in dopamine levels. Feel free to discuss frisson, and post links that give you some really great vibes. :)"

Question: What is the process for how product endorsements are arranged to be on TV shows?
Answer: There are sales people on TV side and media planners on the buying side (companies, media agencies, depending on setup). Each account manager on the TV side has certain customers that he keeps in touch with and makes sure everything is going smoothly. There is usually also a 'new business development' department (or person, or part of one person's responsibilities; depending on size of the operation) who is in charge of bringing in new clients.

The project itself can come about in two ways. The TV side has so-called 'upfronts', where they present their programming plans for the future period to the buyers, media etc., so the media planner can know what sort of programming to expect. If there is a tech-heavy show in the pipeline, he will call the account handler and say something like 'I like the new IT-guy-saves-the-world show, I'd like for it to feature MyPhones'. Depending on the expected success of the show, network size, viewership etc. they will come to an agreement on details like pricing etc.

The other way around is that the media planner has a new product/marketing initiative coming up and calls his account handler and says 'Look, I've got this new product coming up called MyPhone, this is what it's about, I'd like to feature it in a sitcom, how about X?' or just 'anything suitable comes to mind?'. From there on, it's pretty much the same.

What you need to understand is that the big media agencies and the big TV networks manage a huge amount of projects and inventory. For some product launches that are very big, you go into a great deal of detail of which network at which time for which spot etc. For most things, it's agreed more on the level of 'I need 500 000 women between 19-28 in SoCal to see this ad in the next month, and I'm willing to pay $0.10 per person for it" and the AH comes back with "I can't go below $0.15, but I'll throw in a product placement in an episode of ThatShow that hits the same demo".

Question: What is the white stuff on my tongue made up of and why is there such a strong correlation to how my breath smells?
Answer: I read that it is dead fungi or bacteria from food trapped in the small gaps on your tongue. I wouldnt worry about it unless you realise it getting substantially worse, it could then maybe be infection on your tongue. 
If it starts to hurt or stay heavily coated for over 2 weeks you may need to see a GP. 

Source/more info: _URL_0_

Question: Why don't national flags have the name of the country displayed on them? Instead, we're stuck guessing which of the 196 countries it is.
Answer: What language would you write the name in? If you can only read English, the flags of several Asian nations would look very similiar. Same for other similiar languages.

Question: What happens to information and media (texts,apps,videos etc...)on your phone when they are scrolled out of sight?
Answer: They are kept in the device's RAM as you use the app, so that when you scroll back up, they are instantly available.

Some apps may run out of RAM or otherwise optimize to save it, so the data will be erased from the RAM and lost, thus when you scroll back up, then it must re-load the data from the internet.

Question: what is the significance of the neutrino-faster-than-light discovery?
Answer: I'm no physics major but I'll try to ELY5.

There was a guy named Einstein a while back who did a lot of math and realized, with his math, that *nothing* can go faster than light. It just isn't possible, and it is a fundamental rule that shows us why a lot of things in the universe are the way they are. And I mean *FUNDAMENTAL*, as in, when you spill your milk, obviously the floor gets wet *after* you spill the milk. Fundamentally, the reason for this is because nothing can go faster than light. Sounds weird, I know.

If the neutrino thing is true, it shatters a lot of what we thought we knew about the speed of light, and we can't just make the new universal speed limit "the speed of the neutrino" because we thought we had a *really good idea* why the speed of light was the limit, but now we would have no idea what the limit really is, or why. We can't now just call the neutrino speed the fastest speed just because we haven't seen anything go faster than *that*.

Am I making sense? Anyone else wanna tell me if I'm totally off base?

EDIT: [Here](_URL_0_) is a video I really enjoyed, that describes in simple terms, why time slows down as you speed up, and stops at the speed of light. The video may blow your mind, and then try thinking about what it means if something *actually* can go faster than light.

Question: Why do many people see a white light during a near death experience?
Answer: They don't. It's purely anecdotal. 

A handful of people will claim that they saw a "white light", or a "tunnel with shapes at the end" or "the face of grandpa Joe" etc. And then it becomes representative of the whole experience because of the next point.

[It becomes a narrative trope](_URL_0_) that writers in all forms can use as an easy way to describe their characters experiencing a near death experience, or played or laughs as that trope is subverted, etc. Which means it's then put in enough works as to enter the public conscious.

But it's ultimately bogus. Anecdotal evidence is not the same thing as evidence.

Question: Why does my graphics calculator or excel add numbers that should equal zero but gives the answer as -3.00133E-11?
Answer: Perhaps you're performing some kind of floating point arithmetic? Floating point (decimal) numbers don't map nicely to binary data structures, and are typically inaccurate as a result.

When you encode a float in binary, you make every successive bit represent half the value of its precedent. So when you encode 0.2, you end up with a binary number representing 0 + (0 x 0.5) + (0 x 0.25) + (1 x 0.125) + (1 x 0.0625) etc... Obviously, this never reaches 0.2 exactly, because a binary number can't represent those sorts of fractions, much in the same way that our decimal system struggles with fractions of 3 (e.g. we write 10 / 3 as 3.33333.... - which is never equal to a third exactly).

These inaccuracies can create the sorts of issues you talk about.

Question: How are current photography company models still viable? Why do people allow this industry to dictate terms - especially for weddings?
Answer: My photographer gave me a disk with the full resolution version of all the photos taken from 2 cameras (his and his wife) as well as a large set from a professional photo booth he brought with him to take family and group photos at the reception for anyone who wanted. He also signed the rights to the photos over to me so that I legally owned my own photos. All of this cost about $500 because he was a friend of my now wife's family. Arrangements can be made for any type of service but you do get what you pay for typically. I am very happy with my photos and glad I own them.

That being said. Photography is an underpaid and underappreciated profession in my opinion. People think that anyone can pick up a $500 camera and do nearly as good. That's just not true. The post processing, multiple visits, far away locations, using of expensive media to ensure you do not have equipment or storage failure, backups, helper staff, etc. and ability to handle the trust of people who are only giving you one chance to get it right. Add to that the absolute monsters some people can be with a person when they are paying for something or when they are "bridezillas" and you take on a lot of stress and responsibility. They make decent money for one part of the year, on weekends only, and most of them have to have full time jobs with photog on the side because it is not a big money maker. Add to hat all the requests from people to do stuff for free, for cheaper than your time is worth, etc. and it can add up to a really low value profession.

The case you site sounds extreme to me, but you should know what you are getting up front. This is the photography company someone chose, and that is their business practice. If it is not desirable to you, then I would hire someone else whose plan fits your idea of value but be sure to check their work and ask for references so you can get a first hand opinion of their work from clients. As for the sound issues, that calls for a partial refund for poor performance (granted they didn't sign a contract preventing them pursuing refunds for errors)

Question: Freshman here- why wouldn’t everybody apply to as many colleges as possible?
Answer: >  Freshman here- why wouldn’t everybody apply to as many colleges as possible?

Time and effort. Also, application fees upwards of $100 of dollars for higher valued colleges.

Question: Why don't companies buy back their stock from investors once they become self sufficient?
Answer: Why would you want the whole company back if having the majority lets you make all the decisions?.

If you want more money, just ask for a raise and pass it through the board that, since you own the majority, you can pass it.

Question: How is my nose stuffy and runny at the same time?
Answer: Deep inside your nose there is actually erectile tissue, very similar to the penis. An erection is caused when blood vessels in the penis get bigger so more blood flows into it, and the exact same thing happens with this tissue in your nose. 

So often when we are congested and stuffy, it isn't because snot is blocking air from coming through, it's that the inside of the nasal cavity is swollen up. But your nasal mucosa may still be producing a runny snot. 

I wouldn't use a penis analogy with an actual 5 year old I'd like to point out, but I figured it'd be okay here!

Question: How do people with insomnia get energy?
Answer: Often, copious amounts of caffeine and sugar.

Also often, they don't.  They go through the day like barely functional zombies.

This question seems better suited for r/askreddit

Question: How do speakers produce multiple sounds and how does the ear perceive more than one tone?
Answer: It doesn't make more than one sound at a time.

It makes a single noise. Your brain, however, is able to recognize various characteristics of the noise and separate them into individual sounds. This is something your brain does with ALL noise, not just noise from speakers.

Question: Why do giant pandas seem to have such terrible motor skills?
Answer: Bamboo isn't the most challenging of prey, and it isn't like anything eats pandas in the wild either. They don't have much need to be nimble.

Question: Where does the phrase "take it on the chin" come from?
Answer: The phrase comes from boxing, and generally denotes a direct and significant hit (most literally from an uppercut, but that's irrelevant to the use of the phrase as a general idiom).

Question: if someone gets a hold of my social security number, what can they do to steal my identity from that point?
Answer: Off the top of my head, this is what I would do if I wanted to steal your identity using your social security number.  First I would forge a copy of your social security card.  Then I would write to your state courthouse and request a copy of your birth certificate. If questioned, I would say that I lost it and my ID in a house fire, but my social security card was in a safety deposit box.  The next part requires someone who looks similar enough to you to pretend to be you.  That person goes to the DMV with your social security card and birth certificate, and requests a replacement license, saying that yours was stolen/lost/whatever.  Now you could go apply for credit cards, take out loans, or do pretty much anything as the person whose identity was stolen.  There are easier ways, for instance a lot of banking things will use social security numbers as ways of verifying identity, but my way is the most fun.

Question: When people measure "brain waves" (Alpha, Beta, Gamma, etc.) what are they actually measuring?
Answer: Your brain is made of neurons. Neurons are electrically charged cells that communicate with each other by exchanging ions - positively or negatively charged molecules. This exchange of ions creates a voltage. When enough of these neurons creates a voltage, they start to push and pull on each other. This makes a sort of "wave" of voltage that travels through the cells. When this wave approaches the scalp, you can actually detect the voltage with very sensitive electrodes. 

A wave consists of a couple different "properties". When looking at an EEG (electroencephalogram), which is a tool to measure the voltages on the scalp, the technicians will characterize the different waves based on how intense the peaks and troughs are (amplitude) and how close the peaks and troughs are over time (frequency). 

Using this information, they can classify activity in the brain. Alpha waves tend to be moderate amplitude and have a frequency of 8-13Hz. Delta waves have a high amplitude and have a fequency between 0-4 Hz. And so on. 

_URL_0_

Question: Why haven't FIFA or the IOC been shut down for corruption?
Answer: By this logic if someone on a team cheats we should disband the team. The organizations aren't fundamentally corrupt, certain people are.

Question: Common ground between anthropology of art and surrealism?
Answer: Hello, anthropologist here.

Very briefly put, there were several overlaps between the budding field of anthropology and the French surrealist art scene in Paris in the 1920ies. Both fields had an interest in exotic worlds, and both explored ways of representing aspects of reality through condensed forms. For the surrealists this often lead to juxtapositions of pictures and texts through the medium of collage, while for the anthropologist the output would in most cases take the shape of monographies or essays.

I hope this helps - and since this is the ELI5, I'll just PM you a bunch of references for further reading instead of posting them here. Good luck with your paper!

Question: How is there competition and price variation within the bottled water industry?
Answer: All comes down to marketing - making a real or apparent difference in the mind of the consumer between your product and your competitors.

The most obvious examples are your premium ones - Perrier, Evian, Fiji, that stupid Voss crap in the glass bottle.  They sell it at a premium because it's "exclusive" by way of being imported from such-and-such spring.

Aside from that, some brands market themselves for specific targets - e.g. sports / gym / cycling, where you've got bottled water like Pump with a squeezy-nozzle instead of a cap.

Finally, you've got distribution licensing.  If you're a restaurant and you have a contract with Coca Cola as your supplier, you're only allowed to sell Coca Cola's brand(s) of bottled water (and they'll sue you if they catch you selling someone else's).

Question: What makes fresh food better quality than frozen food?
Answer: Freezing food causes water in the food to turn into ice crystals which are larger and can damage the food.  When the food thaws, some of the ice turns to water and drains off leaving the food dehydrated.  Long exposure to ice also leads to freezer burn which leaves an unpleasant taste and color to the food.  

Meat which has been frozen, especially delicate meats like seafood, will take on a soft, mushy consistency when frozen.  The only food that I know of which does well with being frozen are peas.  When picked, peas immediately begin to degrade and the sugars in them starts to turn to starch.  Flash freezing immediately after picking ensures a better quality product.

Question: How true is the theory that the government (USA) is keeping cures (for diseases such as cancer) from us because it makes them more money to treat a disease than to cure it?
Answer: The government is not. There is no reason for them to do that because governments do not need to make money, that's what tax is for. It is reasonable to assume several promising treatments are not being pursued or offered by drug companies because they are not profitable.

Question: Why would the U.S. Special Forces (supposedly) bury Bin Laden's body at sea almost immediately after his death?
Answer: > 1) How did Bin Laden manage to live comfortably in Pakistan for so long without getting caught?

The Pakistani government hasn't exactly been forthright in its relationship with the US, and bin Laden had become pretty good at hiding after 20+ years as a fugitive in some form.

 > 2) Why did the U.S. dispose of his body such that it was irretrievable, especially when they provided no evidence whatsoever of his death? They claim they wanted to give him a proper Muslim burial and could not do so in any country within 24 hours, but it does not seem like something they would give two shits about.

The biggest reason is to avoid creating a shrine for his admirers, or a host of problems for whatever country accepts the body for burial.

 > does not seem like something they would give two shits about.

They do. It costs nothing and avoids creating needless bad publicity.

 > If the official story really is true, then what would be a proper explanation for the above questions (and why would the U.S. fail to offer any evidence whatsoever of his death)? 

There was plenty of explanation offered basically immediately.

Question: Why were most cities in the world founded over a century ago, except for a few planned exceptions? You don’t really see new cities appear anymore...
Answer: You have new cities appearing,but they aren’t famous now so you don’t know about them yet.
Like China for example makes a lot of planned cities

Question: if I go down a wheel size do I automatically go up a tyre size?
Answer: Alright so for example. I have 32/11.5/15 tires. The 32 is how tall the tire is, 11.5 is the width, and 15 is the rim size. If you change rims, all you have to do is get the same tire but with the changed rim size. So if you get a 16 inch rim, you're gonna look for 32/11.5/ 16. The tire itself is gonna lose half an inch overall of sidewall

Question: Why do diplomats have immunity?
Answer: It's two-fold, I'd say. Firstly it's so that the diplomats cannot be threatened into submission. "Report back that there are no war preparations here or you'll be prosecuted and jailed for life for jaywalking!"
Secondly, diplomats and some of the other employees in embassies follow the laws and rules of their home countries as opposed to local laws. On the embassy grounds, obviously, but to a degree, outside it too. What's illegal in the host country might not be illegal in the diplomat's home country, but even more significantly, the law officers of the host country have no authority to enforce the laws of the diplomat's home country, or any other country for that matter.

Basically it's just to ensure that the diplomats have full access to everything they need to uphold relations.

While diplomats cannot be prosecuted, they can be deported. They'd be confined to the embassy until they're replaced. It'd be hugely embarrassing and can easily lead to issues between the two countries. So it's not like diplomats can intentionally break laws to no end.
All this is according to the United Nations Vienna Convention of 1961.

Question: How does my body know to wake me up at night if my arm falls asleep?
Answer: While asleep, your brain sends periodic "pings" to each of your limbs to check that they're still there and functioning. When you pinch a nerve while asleep, the ping doesn't come back, and your brain starts up enough of your processing capability to fix the problem.

Question: how realistic are the depictions of cell phone and computer tracking shown in spy movies? Do you really need to "keep someone talking" to have enough time to triangulate their position? Do hackers really "ping" their signal off multiple servers around the world to avoid detection?
Answer: > Do you really need to "keep someone talking" to have enough time to triangulate their position?

In general, no. Even if your number is blocked/unlisted, the phone company knows where you're calling from immediately and law enforcement agencies have ready access to this information. Keeping somebody talking might have really been a thing back when phone connections were manually switched by operators, but this is no longer the case in the digital age.
If you're calling from a cell phone, the phone company no longer knows *exactly* where you are, but they can get a very good idea based on which cell towers your phone is currently connected to.

 > Do hackers really "ping" their signal off multiple servers around the world to avoid detection?

Yes! Specialized networks such as [The Tor Network](_URL_0_) bounce internet traffic to random people also using the network in order to anonymize traffic.

Question: What Are the Advantages/Disadvantages to a High Displacement Four Cylinder Compared to a Low Displacement Six Cylinder?
Answer: You forgot a large detail in your comparison. The Audi B5 S4's engine is turbocharged. The V6 configuration saves some space which was used for a turbocharger to increase power output.



A 2.6L turbocharged engine can produce a larger power output than a 2.5L non turbocharged engine while keeping the consumption similar when you're not flooring the gas pedal.

Question: Why does nothing grow in the sand at the beach?
Answer: First of all, [they do]( _URL_0_).

The main reason beaches don't get a lot of plant growth is twofold: erosion and salinity.

The constant battering of the waves and the tides means the sand of beaches is typically moved around a *lot*, so any plants that tried to grow in that sandy soil would find themselves uprooted simply due to the water eroding the sand away.

Of course, some plants make thick root systems in order to hold together the sandy soils. So you can often find grasses growing in these wet, sandy areas.

But the main problem is the salinity. Ocean water is very salty, and most land plant life is adapted to environments that are not salty.

Again, some plants have ways to deal with the salinity, such as mangrove trees.

Question: Why is there no humor-based talk show, or any formatted program, by the right wing conservatives? The left it seems spends a lot of time laughing at the right's proclivity to lie and distort truths, while the right are simply angry about every tiny details that makes up the left.
Answer: As the good reverend Stephen Colbert once said - "Reality has a well know liberal bias".


You can make fun of liberals and play up stereotypes, but if you try to make fun of the policies they advocate there is a lack of material unless you flat out make shit up.  Generally reality is on the liberals side, they don't say stupid stuff that can easily be fact checked and found to be wrong.  I'm not saying you can't make a jab at PETA or other far "left" groups, but the majority of liberal leaning people wouldn't associate with PETA et al.


TLDR: There aren't a lot of jokes to be had, because the facts are on their side.

Question: Why do people say the alarm goes "off" when really it comes "on"?
Answer: The alarm is always "on" looking for a certain stimulus. When it sees that stimulus, it turns "off".

Question: When did time begin?
Answer: This is something that is unknowable. Our Universe's timeline started with the big bang. Outside of that we can only speculate. 

The theory I like to believe is that our Big Bang was actually a white hole connected via a Schwarschild wormhole to it's opposite super massive blackhole existing in another Universe.

But like I said we don't really know what created our singularity. 

Keep in mind that Time isn't a spatial dimension. So even theories like the 11 Dimensional M-Theory are actually 10+1 dimensional universes. Anything we perceive is obviously existing inside of a 3+1 dimensional universe. Which makes me also tend to believe Simulation theory. And we exist as a subset of something much bigger.

The thing is though is we always think as though there was an origin of time. Personally I believer we exist in something much large where time is irrelevant. Only OUR Universe has time. Outside of the Universe it would appear as though everything happened instantaneously. ( < -- Obviously speculation)

Question: Why does depression sometimes make breathing very difficult?
Answer: It's difficult sometimes to figure this out but from personal experience, I suffer from anxiety and depression, my anxiety causes something called "over breathing" or "hyperventilation syndrome" Basically, you learn to breath incorrectly and this can cause feelings of shortness of breath or like your drowning, meanwhile your body is getting all the oxygen it needs ( so your doctor may think your crazy at first) but definitely doesn't feel like it. My anxiety was so bad, at one point I would go weeks feeling like I had to yawn to get a good breath like I was always hungry for deep breath. It also got bad enough to experience something called globus hystericus where it feels like something is always stuck in your throat and I had stopped eating solid foods for 8 months. I've only just got back to eating soft foods thanks to breathing exercises and Cipralex. My breathing problems have gotten so much better since accepting my anxiety problems and going on meds to help balance me out. It's scary, and hard to believe something like anxiety can make you feel like your suffocating or like your choking, anxiety and depression affect everyone in different ways and unfortunately, its very misunderstood.

Question: Why do we consume Sodium Chloride and not any other salts?
Answer: We do consume a few other types of salt, just not as much as sodium chloride. If you look at the container of salt in your kitchen, it probably says that it's "iodized salt", meaning it contains a small amount of sodium iodide or potassium iodide in addition to the sodium chloride. A lot of packaged foods also have potassium chloride, although people don't usually keep that in the kitchen. 

As for why? Sodium chloride tastes salty, is non-toxic, and is widely available. Many other salts lack in one or more of those three areas.

Question: How do parrots say sounds made by the letters B, F, M, or P without lips?
Answer: You can produce these sounds by pressing your tongue against your upper lip too, you don't *need* a set of lips to approximate it, just a way to modulate the airflow properly.

Parrots can come pretty close to most human speech with their tongue, beaks, and weird respiratory system setup, but sometimes they have to use a roundabout method of making specific sounds.

Question: Since the Efficient Market Hypothesis is widely accepted, how is High Frequency Trading profitable/viable?
Answer: HFT *makes* EMH true, in a pretty real sense.

The role of stock traders is to act on any idiosyncratic information they have, and to do so until their information content cannot be exploited any more.

The essence of EMH is that in equilibrium, all information has already been acted on. Thus you only make money (relative to the market) if you have private info that you can act on.

Question: Why doesn't a single engine propeller plane need a second propeller to counteract the weight of the front one spinning?
Answer: Single prop planes do have a bit of torque that yaws the plane in one direction or the other.  Usually, you'll make small adjustments to the rudder and ailerons (aka. trimming) to counteract it, or depending on the age of the plane, compensate for it manually.

Question: Why does reddit hate rich people in general?
Answer: We don't hate rich people - but we hate knowing that there is such a disparity between the top and bottom - the gap is enormous.  Seeing a kid with a 20K car would blow my mind.  I rode a bike to school for 10+ years... still ride one to work every day.  I can't imagine having had enough cash to buy a car that expensive... 

And I think on some level there's jealousy.  It's human to desire the nice things that other people have -whether those things are cars or opportunities.

Question: How is it possible that the original Super Mario Bros for NES is only 40 kilobytes?
Answer: The lower power of computers back then requried some very clever usage of storage space.  Limited color palattes, no moving backgrounds, and reusing sprites in multiple locations (IE The clouds and the bushes are the same sprite in different colors).

Question: What's the difference between sexual assault and sexual harassment?
Answer: Well harassment tends to be verbal/communicative while assault is any sort of physical act. If he/she didn't touch you, it's harassment. If he/she did, it's assault.

Question: Why do we physiologically have individualized physical attractions to different types of physical traits instead of just simple homogenized attraction to traits that represent strength and survivability?
Answer: first of all, there are trends in what we find attractive.  very few people find truly maladaptive traits attractive.  most people who like men find strength attractive.  most people who like women find some amount of curves attractive.  most everyone finds healthy people more attractive.

secondly, there is no way for natural selection (or sexual selection, which is what your question is really about) to perfectly optimize for survivability, because there's no way to tell what the future holds.  the environment might change.  the available sexual partners might change.  so having a variety of traits is actually a good bet for a species, and in social species like us, that means it's a good bet for our genes, too.

Question: When you turn a cup/bowl of water in your hand, why does the liquid inside seem to remain still while to cup turns?
Answer: Think of the cup and water as two different objects. You are providing forces for the cup(object 1) to move, buy you are not directly involved in the moving of the water(object 2). The water is moved by a coefficient of friction from the cup. As cups are usually quick smooth, the effect of friction is very low resulting in very little movement of the water. 

The basis for all of this is that "an object in motion will stay in motion unless acted upon by another force", similarly an object at rest will stay at rest. Since the cup and water are two different objects, the water will stay at rest unless friction can provide enough force to move it.

Question: what is enthalphy
Answer: Assuming you know what the following are:

 * Energy, heat

 * Heat Capacity (Specific heat)

 * Calorie (exact definition)

 * Work (energy)

     Q=m*cp*ΔΤ, W=p*ΔV, U=m*cv*ΔT

**Enthalpy** is a measure of how much **energy** a system or substance can *produce*. To help you understand the definition, it stems from the Greek words *En (Εν = in, inside, internal) + thalpy ( > θαλπωρή, ζέστη = heat, warmth). But don't confuse it with internal energy. Enthalpy can be translated into *heat* or *work*. Enthalpy is the sum of internal heat and work.

Going full ELI**5**, I will have to oversimplify some things.

**Enthalpy** is the amount of **energy** you will get if you burn a certain amount (**mass**) of a certain fuel (wood, gasoline, LPG, H2) under specific conditions (**cp** or **cv** or inbetween). Under constant pressure, you will have a great increase in temperature (ΔΤ) and you will also get some work done (pΔV). Under constant volume, you will get an even greater increase in temperature, but no useful (volume-changing) work.

*Negative* enthalpy means that a substance needs *this much* energy to absorb to break down to its simpler components. Eg. the enthalpy of formation of most molecules, like CO2 - >  C + O2 is negative. The  enthalpy of formation for monoatomic molecules (H2, N2, O2) is zero.

Question: Why do we find B.O. unappealing if it's something that occurs naturally (and often while we're relatively clean)?
Answer: I used to be friendly with a homeless guy who hung around outside a bar I used to frequent, and despite being homeless and looking the part, and not even setting foot inside the bar, he managed to go home with women like ALL the time. It was nuts. Some girl would step outside to smoke, or linger before leaving, and he would manage to strike up a conversation with her, charm her, and they'd leave together. Sometimes this all took maybe 10 minutes, tops. I couldn't understand it.

Finally, one night I asked him about it. He told me his "secret" is that he would stick his hands down his pants, rub his groin area, and then rub that scent onto his neck, and it worked as an aphrodisiac. When I expressed my disbelief (and disgust), he reminded me that we're all animals, and no matter where he was, there was always going to be a steady supply of women who were at just the right point in their menstrual cycles as to make them extra available and legitimately receptive to the smell of his dickcheese. Crazy as it sounds, I saw him go home with a lot of women, so maybe there's something to it.

All that is to say, I think we've been conditioned by a cosmetics industry selling us fragrances to believe that our natural scents are unappealing. And I think that is rooted in wealth, or at least the illusion of it. If you don't have BO then I guess it isn't required of you to make much physical effort, which means you must be rich.

But if society were to crumble and we all became cavemen again, I think we'd find natural body odors more appealing again. Just ask Dickcheese the Homeless.

Question: why is it so important to keep trauma victims awake/alert on the way to the hospital, as in how does that aid in their chances of survival?
Answer: More often then not, its easier to monitor the condition of someone whose conscious. By simply talking with the first responder we know they have a viable airway and are breathing. A comatose patient is difficult to assess, as they cannot pinpoint the location of the injury, tell the medical staff how they feel, and communicate any changes in their condition.

Question: What causes sleep paralysis in our brain?
Answer: Not exactly this, but for a five-year old, this...

Imagine your brain shuts down some functions when you sleep. Your eyes are closed, you're not paying attention to the sounds your ears get, and your muscles get to go into total relax mode. 

Normally, everything turns back in in the right order and just in time.

When you have sleep paralysis, those things are starting up out of order. Maybe your brain thinks all is well, but then gets weird messages from your not-yet-in muscles that make it seem like you can't move or are being held down. Maybe your eyes aren't open or not quite focusing right, but your brain expects they are, so it seems like you're blind or your eyes are covered. Maybe your ears aren't sending complete signals, but your brain tries to make sense anyway and maybe makes it seem like someone is there or you've been converted up.

This could be caused by an unexpected jump from a deep sleep it dream state into a conscious state, which can be confusing no matter how it happens.

After a little while things return to normal, but the ways our brains try to make sense of things make it seem like there was trouble.

Sleep paralysis manifests itself in many ways, so yours may vary.

Question: My address bar, IP and DNS, Apache, PHP, MySQL, Servers.
Answer: Alright, here goes.

Let's visit _URL_0_ and search for "test". Type that in, and hit enter:

The first thing that happens, is **Web Browser** goes "*WTF is _URL_1_*". However, **Web Browser** knows a guy called **DNS Server** which has handled this thing from time to time.

So the **Web Browser** sends a request to **DNS Server**: "Hey buddy, do you know who this *_URL_1_* guy is?"

**DNS Server** responds, "Oh yeah, I remember him. He lives at **74.125.225.224**. Great guy." Having this new piece of information, **Web Browser** then visits **74.125.225.224** and knocks on the door.

**Apache** answers the door and just stares at **Web Browser** for a moment until **Web Browser** speaks up, "Hey, I need **/search.php?q=test** Can you hook me up?"

**Apache** continues to stare for a moment, and then turns around and starts to fumble for **search.php** in his filing cabinet. He finds it in the **/** drawer, but there's a small problem - it's in a foreign language, which **Apache** doesn't know how to read. He calls out loudly for his friend, "HEY, **PHP**! Come translate this for me!"

**PHP** walks over to **Apache** and looks at the **search.php**, reading over it. Now, **PHP** has a very limited memory, so he has another friend called **MySQL**, who is very, very good at remembering things. In fact, that's about all he's good at. That's why he lives in the basement. Working together, **PHP** and **MySQL** eventually figure out what **search.php** says when given **q = test** as an input, and proceed to inform **Apache** of this information.

**Apache** then tells **Web Browser** all about **/search.php?q=test**, pretty much just repeating what **PHP** said. **Web Browser** tries to make sense of the instructions it got from **Apache**, and tries to draw them on your screen.

---

The building that **Apache**, **PHP**, and **MySQL** live in is called a **Server**. I don't know why, I would've called it an office, but these guys are all a little strange.

---
Note, the DNS lookup is slightly simplified (there are actually several lookups involved to allow for multiple layers of redundancy in the DNS system), and I didn't fully explain how an IP is any better than a domain name for finding a computer.

A good analogy for that would be to think of the domain name as the person you're sending a letter to, the DNS server as an address book where you look up the person's address, and the IP as the person's address. The mailman knows how to get a piece of mail to a specific address, and won't accept it if it just has a name. Even the mailman doesn't know where every address physically is, but he knows where every address he's responsible for is, and he knows how to send mail to the next town over if it's address to somewhere in that town.

---

Credits!

**Apache** is a web server. There are many different web servers, such as IIS, Nginx, lighthttpd, and they all aim to serve one primary purpose in slightly different ways: Listen for a request from a webbrowser and serve back whatever files are requested. Strictly speaking, you don't *need* Apache, or a webserver as a fully separate process. Many larger web applications often contain a small, built-in webserver which allows them to be easily set up without having to integrate  &  configure them inside of Apache or another webserver. However, you *do* need something to serve as a webserver, listening for the requests from a webbrowser.

**PHP** is a scripting language. Usually, we want the webserver to serve up raw files. HTML is an example of this - when you request a .html file, the server just sends it to you, exactly the way it is. But sometimes, we want the files served back by the webserver to change. So instead of putting the file contents in the file (like HTML), we instead put program code. The webserver knows that *.php files are a program and not a raw file, and that it must use PHP to translate the file into the HTML that it needs to send to the webbrowser. Other common scripting languages include Perl, Ruby, Python and many others.

**MySQL** is a database. Scripting languages are very good at manipulating data, but they are terrible at actually storing it, or retrieving it. A database specializes in only storing data and making it very easy to retrieve. SQL servers (MySQL, PostgeSQL, Oracle, MSSQL, etc.) use a standardized code for scripting languages to make data requests, such as "Show me all the pages you have stored which contain the word 'test'". Ex:

    SELECT * FROM pages WHERE pages.content LIKE '%test%'

There are other kinds of databases as well, which do not use SQL.

All of these are programs, or services (sometimes also referred to as 'daemons'), which run on a **Server**, which is just a computer that has services running on it. These days, even your home computer is a server, since it has a Firewall service, a print service, an audio service, and many other services run in the background and help make your computer run more efficiently.

Question: How does revenue sharing work for a song like "Uptown Funk" where it is written by like four people, sung by someone else yet supposedly "belongs" to a DJ like Mark Ronson?
Answer: There are two copyrights which are related but distinct and both have revenue consequences.

The first is the copyright in the music itself - the "mechanical rights".  Those rights come into existence as the shared property of everyone who wrote the song and the music.  However, it is possible (likely) that the work was either done under contract, or the rights were assigned to a third party as a part of the deal to turn the music into a commercial product.  The former is called a "work for hire", and the copyright is automatically held by the party that commissioned the work.  The latter is called a "copyright assignment" and depending on where the deal was done and who was involved, those can be either very clean or very messy.

(Sidebar: Europe but not the United States recognizes rights that creators have in their works which are inalienable (you can't sign them away even if you want to) and those rights can conflict with the kinds of things that a person might want to do with a copyright.  These "moral rights" are one of the big differences between US and European intellectual property law.)

The song also has a second copyright, the copyright on the performance itself.  In other words, the actual recording made of the song when it was produced. That work may actually be a large body of copyrights all bundled together especially in the case of a work that uses samples or beats that are provided by many different parties.

This is a really, really muddled part of copyright law right now. The law provides for the concept of "fair use" which means that you can use someone else's copyright without permission under certain circumstances but those circumstances are very unclear and subject to a lot of litigation. The entire concept of "sampling" overlaps with the concept of fair use in ways the courts are still settling (and often settling in ways that make "sampling" effectively a copyright infringement).  These days it's pretty common for a producer or record company to get a copyright license from whomever made whatever samples they want to use, if they can, to try and reduce the concern of litigation.

Ok, so how does the revenue work?

In the United States there are groups which have been granted the right to assess copyright royalties and collect those monies by most of the recording business.  Similar arrangements exist in most other countries.  Those groups are the conduit through which money flows back to the copyright holders.  They work with radio stations, event venues, Muzak providers, etc. to assess the royalties.

When a song is played on the radio, for example, the radio station pays a royalty, which is split into two parts - one part for the "mechanical" right and one part for the "performance" right.

You can immediately see where this is going, can't you?  If you hold the "mechanical" rights to a piece of music, you get paid *no matter what recording of it is played*.  So when a band does a "cover version" of a song, some of the money that song generates goes back to whomever holds the mechanical copyright.  The band only gets part of the royalty - the part that goes to the performance of the music.

These royalties are supposed to be collected whenever the music is performed (or in the case of sheet music, sold).  That means when the local bar has an AC/DC cover band in, they're supposed to pay a royalty on the music performed and theoretically some of that money ends up in Angus' pocket.

In this particular case, there's probably a very lengthy contract that describes how the mechanical and performance royalties are to be split between all the people involved in making the song. Some of those people might get nothing. Some might get an ongoing slice of the royalty.  Whatever the deal was when the song was created will exist effectively forever.  The producer in this case likely gets a pretty hefty cut of that money.

Question: In the US, how are judicial gag orders constitutional?
Answer: The First Amendment is not an absolute right. It can be limited by law, but the government has to meet a certain level of judicial scrutiny to determine whether the law limiting the right is acceptable under the Constitution. Namely, things like this where the limitation on one's right to free speech is based on the content of that speech, the Courts apply a 'strict scrutiny' test, to see if the law is to be upheld. In order to be upheld under strict scrutiny, a law must be narrowly tailored to achieve a compelling government purpose. The government must show that there is no less restrictive means to achieve the compelling objective.

In the case of a judicial gag order, the government's interest is quite clear: it wishes to protect the integrity of the judicial process, trade secrets, privacy, law enforcement or military operations, etc. The courts have determined that that is a sufficiently compelling government purpose, and that telling the jury they can't talk about it is the least restrictive way that the government can go about achieving that purpose.

Question: Why is everything so expensive in Australia and New Zealand?
Answer: Prices are higher on nearly all islands. When you cut out the possibility of trucking and rail shipment, costs go up. While Australia and New Zealand have some natural resources, they have to import more items by plane and boat than non-island nations.

Even on islands that have bridges to them, the route is typically longer because they the trucks/trains have to turn around and go back from where they came rather than continuing on to another destination.

There is also something referred to as the "[Australia Tax](_URL_0_)" in which companies charge more for products that don't cost anything to ship, but they charge more for them anyway because traditional goods do actually cost more to ship. This includes things like digital products (downloadable music, software, video games).

Question: How does combining Playstations (or any other computer) into a "cluster" create a supercomputer?
Answer: Software developer here,

Cluster computing is not the same as grid computing or cloud computing or super computing or mainframe computing.

A cluster is a homogeneous local network of nodes, a grid is heterogeneous, a cloud is heterogeneous, distributed, and may even be 3rd party. Distributed computing in common parlance is using 3rd parties to perform your computation - typically by running client software. You see this with SETI@home or Folding@home. Data is divided into batches which are shunted off to a node to be processed until completion, and then the results are combined into a single in-order sequence. Hadoop was a method popularized (and then later entirely abandoned for being too inefficient) by google that used a map/reduce technique for grid and cluster computing.

A mainframe is a computer that has substantial hardware resources dedicated to moving data and performs transactional operations on that data. The IBM z13 has thousands of processors inside the cabinet dedicated just to moving data, and nearly any component can be hot swapped by shuffling all data off the component and onto it's replacement. Even the operating system can be upgraded entirely without stopping computation. These systems are used in places where less than 100% uptime or more than 0% error is intolerable. Yes, such software exists and you use it every day. The banking system has been running *the same* mainframe software since the 50s, just imagine how many credit card transactions are in flight on Earth at any given instant in time. It's also why bank accounts take a day to post, because daily account transactions are accumulated and then ran in singly large batches overnight.

A super computer is a massive parallel computer. These days they're all cluster computers, but that wasn't always and doesn't have to be the case. Each processor is effectively performing the same operation on a data point in lockstep with each other processor. These machines are only capable of accelerating "embarrassingly parallel" computational problems, and that is a technical term. The most powerful super computer would be more than 99% idle and your Halo or whatever would actually probably play worse than it would on your gaming rig or game console.

A big technical challenge is keeping the CPU and the network (the "mesh") saturated with data. Efficiency is the whole point to building any of these massive systems in the first place, and you can only compute certain types of problems and the system is only as fast as the slowest component.

Question: How do scientists know that Dark Energy makes up ~70% of the Universe if they don't know what it is?
Answer: The universe is expanding. That is to say, all of the galaxies that we can see appear to be moving away from the point where they all started at the big bang. That makes sense. Big explosion, everything gets blasted away from the middle.

But, since gravity means that matter attracts other matter, the galaxies should be slowing down slightly, as they all pull on each other. Instead, for some reason the galaxies are going away from each other faster and faster.

Making galaxies go faster would take a LOT of energy, and we don't know where the hell this energy is coming from. That's dark energy. Exactly what that energy is is unclear. It might just be a law of physics we didn't understand, or a new fundamental force that's the opposite of gravity. But something is making everything accelerate, and whatever it is is the dark energy.

Question: Why do dogs react to human voices but not to speakers (phone, TV, music, radio, etc)?
Answer: I hate to admit it but we still have a landline. The phone and voicemail are inside the basement stairway. When someone level a message our dog goes to the door and waits for that person to come out of the basement door.

Our old dog would howl when she heard my wife leave messages on it.

Question: What is a stroke, and what causes it.
Answer: Your brain requires an immense amount of oxygen and energy to continue functioning.  And it requires it nearly continually.  A stroke is a blockage of the blood flow to the brain.  This results in the parts of the brain that the blood is flowing to to become negatively affected.  Usually this is on one side of the brain or the other, which is why you see unequal movement or strength in one side of the body.  As blood flow continues to be restricted, brain damage can occur, which is why responding to a stroke quickly is so important.

Don't forget FAST!

FACE (Ask the potential victim to smile, if it is uneven, that's the first sign)
ARM (See if one arm is weaker than the other.  The best way is to ask them to hold their arms in front of them and level.  If they are unlevel, that's another sign.)
SPEECH (If their speech is slurred, that might be the first sign you notice.  If you're not sure, ask them to talk a bit.)
TIME (If you think a stroke is possible, call emergency services right away.  Better to be safe than sorry in a stroke.)

There are a few other quick checks: Have them stick out their tongue straight forward.  IS it uneven?  If so, it's another sign.  Also, you can have them cover one eye.  If they say their vision is suddenly worse with one eye, it is another sign.

Strokes don't just affect older people.  I've lost two friends in the last year to cardiovascular disease, and both were under 40.

Question: How do bugs always get trapped inside ceiling light covers?
Answer: I don't have proof for this but I read it in an article about mooths. Many insects tend to confound (mix up) an artificial light source with the moon-light which they use for orientation. 
And once they get in the lamp-housing its hard to escape for them, just like a bee flying in your room through a tinted window and then not being able to escape it anymore.

Question: Why do pharmaceutical commercials always tell viewers to see their ad in a magazine? Do people seriously buy a magazine just to look at an advertisement?
Answer: It's because they can't always fit all of the legally required fine print into the commercial -- side effects, warnings, etc. Take a look at a pharmaceutical ad in a magazine sometime, and you'll find that it's probably two pages, back-to-back: Pretty drug ad on the front, and page o' text fine print on the back.

And this is called "covering your ass." The advertisers don't expect people to run out and find the magazine ad, but once they've told them too, they can say, "Well, we warned you..."

Question: What happens to the brain when you get knocked out? What are the long term consequences?
Answer: Generally speaking, a knockout (KO) is when your brain is rattled against the side of your skull. Hence why knockouts sometimes don't happen with the strongest punch, but with a moderate strength one placed right on the chin. The leverage is better at "whipping" your head around, causing the brain to slosh around in there and wack the inside of your skull.

Long term consequences, esp. for someone who gets KO'd a lot, but potentially even for much less, are [CTE](_URL_0_).

KOs are esp. bad if a concussion results (a bruise on the brain resulting from the brain smacking). But worth mentioning while in the same realm, they're separate things. Not all KOs result in concussions*. Not all concussions come from KOs.

\***edit:** After posting I want to revisit this point. According to some definitions, a concussion is any loss of brain function due to blunt trauma, regardless of lasting damage or symptoms. In such a case, any blow that causes impairment, even just wobbly legs/seeing stars, with no last effects would be considered a concussion, albeit a mild one. And a KO would definitely be one. 

I'm definitely using more of a "sports" definition of concussion, which starts at one that results in some actual damage. There are KOs (like flash KOs) that don't result in any concussion like symptoms, whether immediately or well after the incident (since concussions may have latent effects). 

Regardless of definition used though, any KO incident (via trauma, something like a choke is different) should be treated as if it were a significant concussion.

Question: Humans produce lots of body oils. Would they be good for anything if they could be harvested?
Answer: This really should be how baby oil is made.  

From those especially oily babies.

Question: Why is it that human intelligence evolved so rapidly while other intelligent creatures like dolphins remained behind?
Answer: Human intelligence hasn't changed much (nutritional and medicinal advances may have helped some in the past century), but human knowledge has.

The reason we have as much knowledge of the world as we do is our linguistic ability. Most of the knowledge an animal gains over its lifetime is lost when that animal dies because most animals have no way of communicating what they know to other animals. However, humans can convey complex ideas to each other through language so they are able to pass knowledge on from generation to generation. This way we are able to build on what we already know rather than having to start over each generation.

The ability to record language (i.e., writing) also helped because then you could pass on knowledge to people you've never even met.

Question: How is it that an event in a dream can make me feel real physical pain?
Answer: Because pain is in the brain. Pain receptors feed back to your brain, where it interprets them as pain.

If, in a dream, you get stabbed, then your brain thinks you got stabbed, so you feel the pain.

Question: When your body burns fat, where does it go?
Answer: Converting the entire fat you have into energy would make you something like 10000 (to grossly underestimate) nuclear bombs. You certainly are not using that much energy. So your conclusion is right, it isn't being converted into energy like that.

But chemical reactions evolve energy. Some bonds in your fat have higher energy (less stable), and chemical reactions in the body, convert them into more stable bonds . The (comparatively minuscle) difference in energy (stability) is what you get per molecule of fat (or per 2 or 3 molecules according to the reaction mechanism).

That small energy adds up over all atoms, generating the energy you have. (The Avogadro Number, google, is quite large) The more stable compound is waste, and is thrown away from your body.

Funny, how cruel nature is, taking profit from unstable species.

P.S : I do not claim that the entire fat cell is chemically reacted, but the resultant energy is always the product of such chemical reactions.

Question: Why are the Beatles so popular?
Answer: I won't explain why they were popular in their day, as that it obvious. The reason they are still revered to this day is because of how innovative they were. Apart from being great songwriters, they were ceasless experimenters. Never making the same album twice. Remember that  a pop band writing their own songs was just about unheard of in the early 1960s, let alone a pop band that wrote very good, and increasingly sophisticated music. In a few short years they went from writing songs like "I Want To Hold Your Hand" to "A Day In The Life". 

The Beatles were doing stuff in the studio that simply hadn't been heard from a band before. Things such using guitar feedback in a song, reversing audio tracks, experimenting with effects units, instruments, sounds etc. Incorporating different styles and genres in to their work, treating the record as an art form in itself, something with a beginning, middle and end,  not just a medium for the conveyance of songs. As a result they were very influential on how a rock band functioned. No longer were bands viewed as commodities but as artists in their own right. Bands like Pink Floyd and Led Zeppelin could not have existed without the Beatles blazing the trail. That is the reason they are treated with such reverence. That and the fact that they wrote some pretty good songs as well.

Question: The intuition behind the fundamental theorem of algebra
Answer: I think you're a little mixed up, it's not that a nth degree polynomial crosses the x axis n times, it's that the polynomial has n roots, some of which may or may not be imaginary. But then certian polynomials had roots that didn't seem to exist. For instance if you have x^2 = -1 as a root you can't really solve this because if you multiply a number by itself it should always be positive. So mathematicians started saying that the solution to this root is an imaginary number. For about 200 years this imaginary number had no real use except to factor these polynomials, that is until later mathematicians such as Cauchy came along and showed that there are ways to visualize imaginary numbers as complex numbers in a complex plane.

Question: What is new electronics smell?
Answer: There really isn't a single answer for this as it depends completely on the product.  With that said, most likely what you are smelling is the chemicals used to clean the circuit boards and such to prepare them for use.  As the item warms up you are probably also smelling any remaining flux or chemicals being cooked off.

Question: Why do we tune out smells?
Answer: I think it's a predatory thing, new smells means something new is arise and we should be alert. If nothing smells new, then we cool.

Question: How come there can be a thriving porn industry when there's an almost infinite amount of free porn? (Not that I would know)
Answer: A lot of that free porn is ripped from the paid porn sites. Logically, there are a lot of people out there who still pay for porn, either because they are suspicious of free porn or because they want to support the porn they like.

Question: Why do some gay men "sound" gay, I.E have some sort of gay accent (serious).
Answer: We are not going to remove this question-- thanks for phrasing it sensitively and for indicating that your search didn't yield the results you were looking for.

To commenters: please keep it respectful here.

Question: Can animals tell apart reality from their dreams?
Answer: I learned from Stephen LaBerge (doctor who studies sleep and dreams at Stanford) that, from an evolution standpoint, the reason we (and animals) have a hard time remembering our dreams is so that we don't get them confused with reality.

Question: How do Large Bubbles Form on Potato Chips?
Answer: There is an air pocket that expands during the frying of the chip.  However it does not expand enough to break the elasticity of the potato creating a bubble that solidifies when the starches cool down.

Question: How can I swat a fly with all my might, yet it still comes back to annoy me?
Answer: You are using the wrong technique, boy. Might will not rid you of the fly. You need speed, agility and intelligence. You don't need to crush the fly, you need to capture him. Flies are not smart, surely you can think better than him. Use your brain, not just your muscles, boy, and catch the fly.

Question: When is a plant considered officially dead?
Answer: I don't know that there is any official legal or technical declaration of plant death which is consistently followed. Usually individuals will consider a plant to be dead when as a whole it isn't able to recover from its current state even if some clippings may be viable.

Question: How come when the Reddit servers are down, they can still provide the Failure message?
Answer: The server in question is most likely the database server. When you access a page, reddit's web server needs to ask the database for the data. The database has a limited number of available connections, so if too many are currently in progress, it will refuse more connections. The web server will then get an error message from the database, and will return a simple error page to the user.

Question: How does anonymous hack into websites and how are they structured if they are all completely anonymous?
Answer: 'Anonymous' isn't really a single group, it's a generic identity for 'hacktivists'. Anybody can claim to belong, and people that don't claim to belong might get lumped in with them anyway.

How one can crack into any website or network is a lot like asking how someone can break into a building: there's a huge collection of ways, and not all of them would work on all targets. Indeed often it's more varied in the computer security world because very often it takes a string of security breaches before the hacker gets what they're looking for. 

The generic answer is they exploit security flaws they find. There exist companies and freelancers that do 'whitehat' hacking on contract and tell you about the flaws they find without exploiting them as a service, but many, many companies are pretty lax about their security and never bother with security audits or the like.

Question: How do medical examiners/other forensic analysts determine the time frame in which a person died?
Answer: The liver cools at a fairly constant rate, as it is so well insulated within the body, so they measure the temperature of the liver and the ambient temperature of the room, and from these numbers they can estimate a time of death. 

This only works if it was a recent death, for longer times they have to take into account decomposition, and their estimates are far less accurate.

Question: One Degree of Separation for movie making
Answer: It means always making sure every scene is directly connected to the main plot line and main character.  It is a way to trim extra fluff and bullshit from your movie.

Question: Why can't we do brain transplants like other organs?
Answer: When we transplant other organs, we mainly have to reconnect tubes (blood vessels, intestine, etc.).  If we were to replace the brain, we need to reconnect the nerves which we don't know how to do on such a large scale.  

At least that is my current understanding.

Question: What causes an itch on my body?
Answer: To add on to this question, especially the nose?

Question: Why do most kids go through a phase in which they hate their parents?
Answer: Well it's usually around the age that they start forming their own opinions and wanting to have some control over their own lives. Of course their parents still have the majority of control and expect their children to obey their every word. 

I think it's definitely understandable to hate or resent somebody who has absolute power over you.

Question: How can Comcast can charge me a ridiculous price for 30mbs internet but at best I get 3mbs down or up?
Answer: Well I'm. Pretty sure you're paying for 30 MegaBits where as your download is MegaBytes.... The mathematics and how it's measured or how that works is still beyond me and I'd like to know how those numbers correlate and what a megabit really is

Question: Why do we remember some skills (e.g swimming and cycling) our whole lives?
Answer: It's called procedural memory. More specifically, it's 'muscle memory' or 'motor learning' which is a type of procedural memory.

Your brain's cerebellum, in particular, is very good at encoding sequences of muscle movements into long-term memory storage.

Procedural memory is very robust. Even people with dementia and amnesia often still retain procedural memories for skills like playing a musical instrument or riding a bicycle without any conscious effort.

Interestingly, for people with anterograde amnesia (a condition characterized by the inability to form new memories), it's still possible for them to learn new motor skills and encode them as procedural memories.

In other words, you can have someone with anterograde amnesia learn to ride a bicycle (as just an example) for the first time in their life and each day you get them to ride they will have no recollection of ever riding before, but each day they will continue to get better and better at riding the bike.

Question: why do only loans and credit cards show in your credit reports and not other types of accounts
Answer: Information cannot show up on your credit report if it is not reported to the credit agency.  If your utility company doesn't report payment history to, for example, Experian (one of the three major agencies that create and monitor your credit score), then that information will not show up on your credit report.

Most utility companies do not report this information to credit agencies.  The Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) mandates a few things about companies reporting your payment history.  The two big ones that tend to present hurdles for utility companies are that 1.) payment history must be reported promptly, and it must be reported regularly; and 2.) discrepancies on the report must be settled in a timely manner.  Most utility companies are either not able or not willing to meet those criteria, and so your payment history cannot be counted against (or for) your credit score.  In the long run, this is actually intended to be better for the consumer.

Question: If Blue LEDs just have been invented (nobel price '14), how come my smartphone's notification LED can shine blue since a couple of years?
Answer: The nobel price was awarded in 2014 for the discovery that happened about 20ish years ago

Question: Why do your allergies flare up when you wake up? I never recall being woken up from sneezing but as soon as I wake up it starts.
Answer: When you are sleeping your body is producing antihistimine so it can function quietly whilst you sleep. Wake up and it allocates those hormones elsewhere.

Question: Are internet and cable ads confusing on purpose? Or are cable and internet companies just bad at their jobs.
Answer: They are well thought and confusing on purpose:
1) they don't want you to be able to compare their product to the competition. 
2) they try to give a sense of urgency "buy now" even the product is on the shelves for a long time. They frequently create fake sales, fooling people into believing they get a great deal.
3) they see that one fixed price has limitations. For example, a hotel that sold 50% of their occupancy. What will they do with the empty rooms? They gradually start reducing price in a way customers think they got a bargain. Same with cellphone carriers. They speak about deals, but in reality, they are all very much alike. Nobody is significantly cheaper than others.

Question: How are my headphones playing a "ghost station"?
Answer: A nearby AM radio station is being picked up and rectified by the TV. 

A simple AM receiver can be made with a junction of two dissimilar metals or a metal needle point on a crystal. I suspect the electronics in the TV are performing the rectification and the headphone cable is the antenna.

Question: How do interplanetary spacecraft (and in the future interstellar), protect against collisions with space debris?
Answer: They don't and they don't need to. Space is incredibly big and empty. Despite how visuals like the one on the [Asteroid Belt Wikipedia article](_URL_0_) makes it seem, the majority of the asteroids are very small and the distance between them is enormous. The odds of our probes to the outer planets hitting anything are astronomically slim and they have been flying directly through it without any collisions so far. Once you get out of the solar system into interstellar space the distances between things just becomes even larger.

Question: Cyclic Groups  &  Examples
Answer: The integers, start with 1 and keep adding or subtracting 1, you get all the integers that way.

A clock, take 1 o'clock and keep adding or subtracting 1 hour... you will get all the possible times on a clock.

All cyclic groups are really either clock groups or are the integers.

With a 12 hour clock you can also get all the times by using 5 (then add or subtract 5), 7 (add or subtract 7), and 11 (add or subtract 11).

If you a 15 hour clock you could use 1, 2, 4, 7, 8, 11, 13, 14. 

In general if you have an n-hour clock you can use any number g so that the fraction n/g is does not reduce.

Question: How is it possible for us to know if a sound comes from the top or the bottom given that we only have two ears aligned horizontally?
Answer: The shape of your ears directs sound into your ear canals difforently based on the angle it comes in at. If you change the shape of your ears with something like play dough you lose this ablilty all togeather. Other animals like dogs aren't as good st this and so tilt their heads to get a better idea of what virtical angle the sound is coming from. Here is a great video by Smarter Every Day all about it: _URL_0_

Question: Why do we have morning wood, does females have something similar or not at all ?
Answer: There are many factors. 

1) Your body will give you a partial erection to help prevent you from emptying your bladder while you are asleep. 

2) Your body goes through cycles that raise and lower your blood pressure while you sleep. These happen numerous times during the night and each time they happen you are likely to get a partial erection. 

3) Contact on your genitals by clothing or bedding while you sleep can stimulate you enough to get an erection. 

4) Erotic dreams can cause you to get an erection.

Question: the E meme
Answer: us teenagers have lost all sense of humor and now make memes as bizarre and esoteric as possible. basically all the memes on r/deepfriedmemes are a great example, or the zuckerbot meme. i still find it funny tho lmao

tl;dr: were fuckin dumb

Question: The formation of storms during the "Dust Bowl"
Answer: A dust storm is formed when high velocity winds pick up loose sand and dirt of a flat surface and carries it over a distance.  Besides the Dust Bowl, dust storms are very common in dry sandy areas and in deserts; a dust storm is the same thing as a sand storm, and they occur all the time.  

There wasn't a meteorological phenomena taking place during the Dust Bowl.  High winds are quite common in the American prairies.  In fact, dust storms still take place today.  The reason why the Dust Bowl had plenty of storms was because, as you mentioned, the agricultural practices.  If they're wasn't any agriculture in the area, there would have been less loose soil and dirt.  To make things worse, there was a drought in the early 1930's.  So, all the loose soil and dirt became really dry, and was easily picked up by the wind.

TL/DR: To create a dust storm, you need heavy wind and a lot of dust.  A combination of agriculture and drought created a ton of dust that was picked up by the naturally occurring wind.

Question: What is the difference between "Sell By", "Best By", "Use By"... etc. dates on food?
Answer: Employer must sell this item by : dd/mm/yy  ;
This item is best consumed if by : dd/mm/yy   ;
Consumer should finish (use) this item by : dd/mm/yy

Question: Why does the moon appear larger at the horizon?
Answer: It's believed to simply be an optical [illusion](_URL_0_).

Question: How are built bases and platforms in the sea?
Answer: The majority of offshore oil platforms actually float or are on "legs".

[Here's the legs of one, being towed out to sea.](_URL_0_) - in the case of these, footings or foundations on the sea bed - obviously its not that deep - are poured by highly skilled deep sea divers. One of the cool things about concrete is that - depending on the mix - yes, you can "pour" concrete under water and it sets. Although its possible that the "footings" are just level spots graded by a dredger if the bottom is sound enough (rock, not sand).

[Here's one that floats being transported.](_URL_2_). Once it gets to where its going, they fill the base and legs with sea-water to create ballast. There's enough air left in the legs to create bouyancy and it floats. They anchor the platform with either literal anchors, but more likely big blocks of concrete cast on land and then dropped where they need to be, and connected to the platform with cables. 

For bridges and stuff, your support structures have to be mounted to the sea floor. While "floating" bridges do exist, they tend to be temporary. Although [Norway is currently planning a "floating tunnel" across a fjord, where the tunnel is suspended by floating islands that ships can sail between.](_URL_1_)

Question: Why do big companies care about geoblocking so much?
Answer: It depends on the company I suppose. In many cases it has to do with marketing. If you are releasing products on a regional scale (eg you cannot ship out all at once to the whole world), then allowing your website, advertising, and other marketing to penetrate and build demand in a market where the product may not be released for months or years, is very counter productive. 

It will build popularity at a time when people cannot purchase the product, and when the product is finally released, it will be old news, the initial excitement having already passed.

Other industries do it simply because that is the way they have done it in the past (see point above) and are resistant to change (even though the origional reasons for doing it have been resolved).

For other companies it may be an issue with keeping their brand at top quality. Changing a marketing campaign for other countries takes ALOT of work and time, which even when companies take the time to do it can still cause major issues. Simply releasing an unfinished product can do a lot more harm than good.

Question: With all the advancements in technology, how are there still places that have no service?
Answer: Money and physics, mostly the former. It costs a pretty penny to build cell towers and expand the network, if you can't justify the cost to build it with the amount of income you'd get by new subscriptions covered by the new infrastructure, it won't be built. That is unless the government subsidizes the construction, which they have done in the past but people complain about it. 

From a physics perspective there are a few places where it's notoriously difficult to get service, like in a valley or in an extremely crowded cell. The solution is to build more cells, which brings you back to the point on money.

Question: If we used nuclear power for everything, how long until we run out? Could we get more uranium by then?
Answer: Fissionable materials are infinite for all practical purposes.

Uranium can be extracted from seawater in vast quantities because it comprises a significant portion of the Earth's crust.

Question: How does a quartz clock work?
Answer: Yarr, ['twas asked by those what sailed in before ye!](_URL_1_)

Enjoy yon older explanations, and remember [rule 7](_URL_0_) says search to avoid repostin'.

Question: What is the big deal with the movie The Interview?
Answer: This is so completely ridiculous. As a nation, the US (supposedly) prides itself on not (usually) crumbling to terrorists threats. If we alter our way of life, based on fear, terrorists win. It is a goddamn movie. The people of North Korea do not even know of it's existence. They have no connection to the civilized world. So, what is the matter? Who does it hurt? Do people really think that a comedy starring a Canadian stonner Seth Rogen and squinty eyed James Franco will result in global uprising? Come on....

Where was the hostility when Team America came out? What made that so different? Puppets? Shit, I mean, The Interview is probably going to be just dick jokes the whole time.

When it comes to comedy the point is clear: either everything can be lampooned and joked about or nothing at all. It is that simple. This is the school of Mel Brooks. Trey Parker, Matt Stone, and Seth McFarlene abide by the code (with a few executives pulling material). Stand-Up Comedians like Dave Attell, Lisa Lampanelli, and many others also abide by this. Once we filter and censor comedy, then it loses all meaning. We lose basic human will to decide.

This does not mean that comedy cannot be tasteless; it most certainly can be! Months after the Boston Marathon bombing a naive girl dressed up as a victim for Halloween. She trended hard on the web and in a very negative way. It got to the point that she lost her job over it; absurd. She did nothing wrong. She found humor in a somber place that was relatively still new on peoples minds. She had the right to make fun of it. The issue that it comes down to is - taste ... Tasteless? Most likely. She did not dress up as a victim to maliciously attack victims, their families, or anyone in the city who was affected one way or another. She was a girl who turned relevancy of the world around her into a Halloween Costume. Years ago, when I was 8, I was a HOBO for Halloween. I essentially lampooned homeless vagrants who abuse the rail system. No one batted an eye. Where is the outrage there?

It is just a damn shame that over time the human races strongest trait is FEAR ... we place more stock into fear than anything else. We do not place nearly enough emphasis on education, love, or understating.

If the human race were Jedi's ... most of us would have succumbed to the Dark Side by now; within the past few decades alone.

Question: If the Big Bang happened, what events preceded it?
Answer: The honest answer is that we don't know. There are some conceptual ideas, but none with any evidence as of now. The after effects of big bang itself cuts us off from data gathering at a certain point, and going back any further than than the singularity is outside the realm of what we know as existence so we wouldn't even know what data to look for (if there is any). 

Suggestion: A better way to ask this is "What is the origin of the singularity in the big bang and what caused it to expand?" Asking it that way will avoid people saying, "There was no 'before' because time did not emerge until the big bang. "

Most people (like me) know what you meant by your question, but some people are just difficult and don't answer what you mean, instead defer the question.

Question: How are highway light pole bulbs changed?
Answer: Tall hydraulic lifts with a guy in the basket.  It really is that simple, they cone off the lane, the guy gets in his safety harness and gets lifted all the way up there in the basket with the new bulb.  I knew a guy who collected street light bulbs, don't ask me why, he was a bit odd.  But he showed me them and the bulbs are actually quite large and expensive.

Question: How can people survive a lighting strike but will almost certainly die at a 220v home socket.
Answer: I'd suspect "almost certainly" is quite a bit of an overstatement.  I've shocked myself at least two dozen times with the current coming from my wall, and while it hurts like a bitch, i've never come close to dying.

And while people *can* survive lightning strikes, I also suspect you have an overestimated view of how many people survive direct lightning strikes.

It all depends on *how* you're being electrocuted; proximity, how the current flows through your body, etc.

tl;dr: Your adjectives seem backwards

Question: Why do scientists think space isn't spherical?
Answer: First of all, we have to define some terms.  Instead of spherical, it is more correct to say that something is positively curved (ie. that if the curvature continues indefinitely then it will eventually enclose some space bounded by the curve).  Hence, a sphere.  A quick way to determine this is if the angles on a triangle drawn on the surface of the curvature add up to **more than 180 degrees**.

Negatively curved space looks basically like a saddle.  If you extend this infinitely then the edges don't actually ever meet up so it doesn't bound some finite zone.  A quick way to determine this is if the angles of a triangle drawn on the surface of the curvature add up to **less than 180 degrees**.

The last option is flat.  That is, the triangle's angles add up to **exactly 180 degrees**.

So, using the triangle idea, we measure incredibly huge triangles in space using known reference points like quasars.  We have to use huge triangles (the larger the better) because a sufficiently big sphere or saddle would look flat on a small scale.

It turns out that, when you do those meaurements, the universe is flat to significantly less than 1%.  That is, the angles of the triangle add to somewhere between 179.5 degrees and 180.5 degrees.

That's it in a nutshell.  This method works because space, on very large scales, is homogenous and isotropic.  That is, it looks virtually the same no matter what direction and how far we look.  So we can take those huge triangles and be pretty certain that what we're seeing is a good approximation of "everywhere".

Question: Why has China devalued its currency, and what will that mean for other countries?
Answer: When your currency becomes stronger, it becomes much harder for you to export your country's goods, because your goods become more expensive for other countries. China doesn't want that because they are the  biggest export nation that there is.

Question: Why do plastic bags make so much noise?
Answer: Well as far as i know, its because the polymers are stretched and crystalized to make the bag cheap and sturdy. This makes it more resistant to physical manipulation and when you overcome the resistance when you change the shape, the energy is released as sound.

**eli5: Sound is vibrations. Crumpling a plastic bag releases vibrations into the air.**

Question: How do human crushes even happen?
Answer: You're thinking about it from the perspective of the people at the front, not the people at the back.

When the people at the front reach a barrier, they stop. Seems simple. You would expect the people behind them to stop too. The people behind them will stop, and so will the people behind ***them***.

But then you get to 100 rows back, and the people back there have no idea why the crowd has stopped moving. All they know is that they want to move forward (to see the match, reach the fire escape, or whatever) and the people in front of them have stopped. They see a small gap in front of them and try to squeeze into it to get further forward.

Multiply this by 1000 and you've got a huge force pushing against the people at the front. People at the front are dying and those at the back are completely unaware that there is a problem.

Question: How they determine the length of time to wait between airing a movie in theaters, and premiering it on TV.
Answer: I say once they've felt they've squeezed as much money as they can out of dvd sales from rentals and purchases. Most likely they wait til after after a holiday event where they know they'll get alot of sales. Also, It won't go on tv unless someone wants it. If someone wants it the "industry" again get paid for licensing out the movie.

Question: About health insurance, what happens when you reach the age of 26?
Answer: Obamacare made it possible to keep your health insurance if you're insured under your parent's plan until you're 26 years of age (previously, I believe it was 22). 

After you turn 26 you will no longer have insurance unless you've obtained a plan through your own employer/institution/whatever. 

Let's say you had a stable career by age 24, and that employer provided you with healthcare benefits, you would no longer need to be insured under your parent's plan: you'd have your own. 

Basically your parents are telling you that if you want to receive healthcare when you're 26, you need to find some way to get your own insurance. Finding a job that provides good benefits is the way to do it.

ETA: It's never free, though. It comes out of your paycheck.

Question: How are cell phones able to find each other if they are constantly moving between different cell phone towers?
Answer: A cell phone is actually a radio -- an extremely sophisticated radio, but a radio nonetheless. 

Before cell phones, trucks would talk to each other using CBs, however, this was limited to the number of people that could talk at the same time due to the  range and the fact these typically only had about 25 channels. 

The genius of the cellular system is the division of a city into small cells. This allows extensive frequency reuse across a city, so that millions of people can use cell phones simultaneously.

In a typical analog cell-phone system in the United States, the cell-phone carrier receives about 800 frequencies to use across the city. The carrier chops up the city into cells. Each cell is typically sized at about 10 square miles (26 square kilometers).

Because cell phones and base stations use low-power transmitters, the same frequencies can be reused in non-adjacent cells. 

Here are the basics:

 - As you drive through the city areas are divided into cells
 - The cells read a unique ID on your phone to identify you and what carrier you are with.
 - If your ID matches that of the tower, you will be considered in your home network.
 -  Along with your ID, your phone also transmits a registration request, and the cell tower keeps track of your phone's location in a database -- this way, the tower knows which cell you are in when it wants to ring your phone.
 - The cell tower gets the call, and it tries to find you. It looks in its database to see which cell you are in.
 - The cell tower picks a frequency pair that your phone will use in that cell to take the call.
 - The cell tower communicates with your phone over the control channel to tell it which frequencies to use, and once your phone and the tower switch on those frequencies, the call is connected. Now, you are talking by two-way radio to a friend.
 - As you move toward the edge of your cell, your cell's base station notes that your signal strength is diminishing. Meanwhile, the base station in the cell you are moving toward (which is listening and measuring signal strength on all frequencies, not just its own one-seventh) sees your phone's signal strength increasing. The two base stations coordinate with each other through the cell tower, and at some point, your phone gets a signal on a control channel telling it to change frequencies. This hand off switches your phone to the new cell.

tl;dr - Your phone acts as a radio and cell towers communicate with your phone and each other to automatically transfer your call.

Question: How the "feels like" measurement of the temperature is taken?
Answer: They take measurements of the humidity, wind speed, and temperature, then they put them into a formula and they get roughly what it will feel like. The formula and some more information about it are available [here](_URL_0_). I guess I could have copy-pasted it, but I'm too lazy.

Question: Why do people KEEP pressing the button in /r/button. Is it reward gratification or some other motivation
Answer: People want to push it as close to zero as possible to get the rarest color.

Take heart though, you had to be registered by April 1st to press it, so eventually there won't be anyone else to press it and we'll all be disappointed at the outcome together.

Question: why is my earliest memory not from birth or a little after birth?
Answer: Your brain is not finished developing until further age. By the time of your birth your brain still lack the cognitive ability to store memories. It is not until further age you get some of the brain abilities that might seem obvious to you now.

You should watch this video about [cognitive development among children](_URL_0_) -  Its quite interesting.

Question: How come I get pimples everywhere except on my hands or feet?
Answer: Pimples are caused by sebaceous glands, which produce an oil-type substance to coat our hair follicles (even the barely visible ones on our foreheads and noses). 

The skin of our palms and soles are special. The epidermis of the rest of the body has only four layers, and also has lots of hair follicles (and thus lots of sebaceous glands). The epidermis on the palms and soles have five layers and have no hair (so no sebaceous glands at all).

Question: How does unemployment insurance work?
Answer: So unemployment is basically a pot of money funded by the federal and state unemployment taxes that businesses pay. The more workers a business has file for unemployment, the higher their unemployment tax rate. You don't have to contact the employer at all - the state will do that part.  

The rules for whether you qualify to receive unemployment benefits vary by state. You'll need to contact your local unemployment office to find out if you qualify.  

A voluntary quit scenario is generally harder to get approved (though certainly not impossible), so you'll want to gather any supporting documentation you had (complaints you filed about sexual harassment and theft, requests for additional time, etc.)

Question: Lisps
Answer: You have a form of [rhotacism](_URL_3_). Just from some googling, it appears [Arabic does not have](_URL_4_) a [/ɹ/](_URL_1_) sound like English does. Instead, you only have [غ](_URL_2_), which is pronounced as a [/ɣ/](_URL_5_) (or [/ʁ/](_URL_0_) in Classical Arabic). It would make sense, then, that you have a hard time pronouncing a sound you didn't grow up with. This is normal, just like English speakers have a hard time picking up the ability to roll their Rs.

Question: What is the difference between an originalist interpretation and a "living document" interpretation when it comes to the U.S. Supreme Court?
Answer: The idea is a debate about whether the founders wrote the thing to be specific, rigid, and amendable only through the amendment process...

or whether the founders wrote the thing with deliberately looser language to take shifting societal norms into account.

For example, the 8th amendment prohibits "cruel and unusual" punishments but neglects to define those terms. An originalist would argue that we need to research what "cruel and unusual" meant to the founders. A proponent of living document theory would argue that "cruel and unusual" is deliberately vague so that the boundaries of cruel and unusual can shift as society progresses.

Question: Why are the players more prone to breaking out into fights in some sports compared to others?
Answer: Certain sports are more 'aggressive' than others...When the sport is physically demanding where the opponents are, in a sense, battling each other (a combat sport – combat = war), then the aggression level of the players is heighten as if they are in war or predator vs pray…this makes the players more prone to fight where as a physically demanding endurance sport like cycling is the opposite – the endurance sport is a race from point A to B, not combative.

Question: How does doing more exercise give you more energy?
Answer: Energy the body produces isn't a "static pool" that is only filled with so much water. It's like a big reservoir with an input valve (your food) and an electricity-producing hydroelectric dam (the body process called "metabolism" that creates the energy to run your body), and discharge shoots for the exiting water (your... uh... hoo-hah and wiggly bits).

When you exercise, you're tuning up that hydroelectric dam. The body is getting into a mode where it is realizing "hey I have work to do here! I better maintain my energy production facility", so it knocks the rust off of the old turbines and maybe throws some new ones in there too (i.e. starts getting into the mode of growing muscle). All that tuning and extra capacity creates more available energy during the times when you're not working out.

Question: Why do most US schools have children get up before the crack of dawn to go to school?
Answer: The American workday is typically 9-5, and parents need to get their children fed/clothed/etc and on the bus or dropped off and still able to get to work on time.

Question: What does the discovery of the knee's anterolateral ligament mean for us, and why did it take so long to confirm it's existence?
Answer: Seriously! How did we just now discover this? Wouldn't it be noticed during the countless autopsies performed?

Question: How do military aircraft intercept hijacked commercial planes?
Answer: Former navy, we did flight ops with helos to intercept subs and track em. Intercept is kind of a blanket term. You can "intercept" the plane or boat and guide it to a destination of your choice but that is a gentle hand approach. Imagine two bouncers at a bar standing next to you...you will prob listen if they are willing to beat your ass. This is especially true when you look at US policy for hijacked planes. 

Tldr: shoot that bitch down.

[Source](_URL_0_)

 If they don't comply I am unaware of any way to take over the air craft while it's in flight. The call then is to disable it risking  casualties or destroy it. Maybe some one with pilot experience can weigh in.

Question: What are the rules for driving off-road in America?
Answer: It is illegal to drive on other people's property without their permission. It is trespassing and could be destruction of property if you tear up the land or hurt crops. If you own the property you can drive as much as you want and you do not even need a license to do so. 

It can be illegal to drive on public lands outside of designated driving paths, but it is not always. You will have to check with the park. 

Pulling onto the shoulder of the road, or into the culvert if you have car trouble is expected, and often required in most States and you can get a ticket for failing to get your car safely off the road. 

There are many places (particularly in rural areas) that have parking areas that are basically just patches of dirt or open fields. It is generally only illegal to park here if you abandon the vehicle, park there without permission of the owner, or are in some ways impeding traffic. 

But overall it varies by State, county, and city so there can be a lot of variation. 

Edit: Also how can you have lived in a rural suburb? A suburb by definition is physically attached to a city so is far more urban that it is rural.

Question: Why can light travel through some solids (e.g. water bottle) but not all?
Answer: Some molecules have a tendency to crystal structures: if you look at a  piece of material very closely (with an electron microscope), you can see that the molecules form repetitive, organised structures. A famous example of this is [diamond](_URL_0_) .

In the picture, you can see the pattern that is repeated millions of times in all 3 directions, which eventually creates a touchable diamond.

Some molecules tend to form a strucure that is essentially one gigantic crystal strucure (e.g. sapphire). Because all the atoms are very nicele ordened in a pattern, photons can often fly through whithout boucing off an atom.y

A polycristalline structure is also possible. This can occur when the same type of atoms 'decide' to form clusters of different crystal structures, or because there are different atoms with different structures etc. In this case it is sometimes possible that the materials are still semi-transparent, but in e.g. metals (which form crystal structures) light cannot pass through.

Materials can also be amorphous, which means the material is just a mish-mash of unordened atoms. In this case, light cannot pass through the material (the material is opaque). Light bouncing through will always hit an atom after a small distance. An example of this is silicon.

You can compare the photons to a straight flying football going through a stll-standing batallion of soldiers in formation vs. going through the mass at times square during New Year's Eve.

**TL;DR**: Sometimes atoms are nicely ordened which makes it easy for photons to pass trough the material.

**SOURCE**: I have a material science course.

**EDIT**: spelling

Question: Why isn't charging the mound in baseball considered assault?
Answer: It's assumption of the risk. You, by playing baseball, consent to all of the risks inherent in the game. One of those things is fighting that may happen from time to time.

Question: How did tithing come to be a requirement for members of the church?
Answer: Tithing goes back to the earliest days of Judaism (Abraham offered a tithe to Melchizedek and it was required in [Jewish law](_URL_2_)).  However, in the earliest Christian church records, the church appears much more like a [commune](_URL_1_) where there were few things held individually.  

The earliest mention of giving a tithe by a Christian is [Cyprian](_URL_0_) who lived from 200 to 258, and argued that too many Christians were not giving 10% but were increasing their wealth.  By the 6th century it was part of [Church law](_URL_3_), and by the 8th enforced by secular law.

Question: Why do stovetops measure temps from LO-HI (with numbers) instead of temps?
Answer: The temperature of your cooking element doesn't really give you an indication of your food's temperature.  Just because I set my stove to 200 degrees doesn't mean that the food is 200 degrees.

Why not just use a food thermometer like everyone?

Question: Why are we able to see shockwaves?
Answer: refraction

changes in air density (aka shockwaves) act like lenses made out of air

more or less the same effect can be observed over candles, only there it is hot air and not compressed air

Question: Why is it unwise for a lawyer to represent himself/herself after being arrested?
Answer: Well, because you are emotionally invested. It is basically the same principle why a doctor shouldn't tread his own family. As a party of this investigation / conflict, you are bias, you have your own opinion that is not necessarily reflected by law, but by your own feelings toward the case.

As such, it prevents you from really taking a step back and look at the case in whole, keeping your mind clear to analyse it as a professional.

Question: Why serial killers tend to be white, male, and 30's?
Answer: It's a mix of factors.

Most people in the US are white. So that's the first third of your answer.

The most common motivation or reason why serial killers do what they do is because it gives them personal gratification which outweighs any voice in their head that tells them not to. 

How they got this way could be any number of reasons - child or sexual abuse, bullying, not adhering to social norms, horrible family life, and so on. Some of those factors like bullying might affect men more than women, and guys are generally less likely to listen to that little cautionary voice in their head in general (which is why male drivers have more accidents than female ones as a trend). So that's the guy part.

When they're in their 30's, they have a combination of money to pay for their "hobby", high social and sexual drive, and three decades for their psychological disorder to seat itself. Couple this with that being the age where they're also gaining independence, and that's around the time they're most able and wanting to do bad things, making the 30's the age part.

Question: what is the meaning of true positve ,true negative ,false positive and false negative?
Answer: Imagine you are subjected to a lie detector test.  You are innocent of the crime.  When the examiner asks whether you committed the crime, you say “No.” But the needle jumps anyway.  The examiner says, “AHA!  You’re lying!”  Even thought you are actually telling the truth.  This is a false positive.

Then they bring in the real criminal.  They hook him up and ask if he committed the crime.  He says, “No.” The needle doesn’t move. The examiner says, “You’re honest.  That’s all we need.  Have a nice day.”   This was a false negative.  The instrument failed to detect the lie, even though it should have.

I use polygraphy as an example because it is really, really unreliable.

Question: How do old animated films get digitally remastered to make them HD? ie: old Disney movies.
Answer: They were always well beyond HD.  Do you think the version that was sent to theaters back in the day was equivalent to SD?  It was on a film reel that was even higher effective resolution than 4K for the most part.  

The film master is put through a scanner that saves the movie in a digital format.  We have much better scanners now, and we still have the film master.  You just gotta rescan it.

Question: Why do school teachers need a fundraiser every year for school supplies?
Answer: The taxpayer doesn't like to actually pay money for services provided.

Question: how are movies like the Parent Trap made when one actor plays multiple roles and their faces are seen together in the same shot?
Answer: One way of doing it is to shoot the scene twice without moving the camera. The first time, they shoot the scene when the actor plays the first role, the second time the second role. These two versions of the scene are then blended over each other.

Another version uses blue-screen in which one of the takes (or both) are shot in front of a blue canvas (or green), which is then replaced by a real background.

In these cases, the actor never touches the other character because it's, well, impossible. There is, however, techniques that allow this. One way is to compose the picture in a way that cuts the arm (usually around the elbow), and another actor is touching the character. The blend-over scene fades out the fact that there's just a "magic hand" there.

Question: Why do healthier versions of a food items cost much more than the unhealthy versions?
Answer: The comments here are all good but miss one point; 'healthier' foods generally do not have very long shelf lives thus increasing the likelihood of waste for the store. To balance this, they increase the price. This is just one factor, the others have already been mentioned.

Question: How does someone like 50 Cent go broke?
Answer: As /u/Dieniekes pointed out the other day in another thread he isn't exactly broke, he filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy and not the common Chapter 7.



 >  This filing buys him the time he wants/needs to pay his debts. He's not "bankrupt" in the typical usage of the term.
He's filing chapter 11 bankruptcy; this is not bankruptcy as most citizens know it. The bankruptcy that most people know is Chapter 7 bankruptcy (or chapter 13 under certain conditions) and is a total reset where you are left with no assets and no debts.

 >  Chapter 11 bankruptcy is typically known as a "restructuring" bankruptcy. Given the lawsuits they quote in the article, I would assume he does not have immediate access to the liquid assets necessary to pay his immediate debts. This filing is to protect his investments while his financial team develops the most appropriate plan to pay his lawsuit debts. Paying $20mm is not an emergency for someone worth $500mm; paying $20mm in the next 30 days for most people of significant wealth is an emergency--most of their wealth is in investments. Think Zuckerberg here... Net worth of ~40 billion. 24 billion of that is in Facebook stock. It's not easy to free up mass units of stock for their fair market value because selling off large units of stock tanks the stock value.

Question: How do insects function brain wise, they're so small. How do they know how to do anything.
Answer: Think of a very basic program.  It's like they have several subroutines going:

Function See()

Function Hear()

Function Feel()

Function ReactToStimuli()

Function FleeAwayFromThreat()

Function FindAndProcureFood()

Function Procreate()

It does not take a lot of cells in a brain to do these things.

Question: Why do we sometimes flinch in our sleep?
Answer: If im reading the question right and you are talking about that jerk right before you fall asleep. The theory behind it is that it's a basic instinct that we learned when were we less evolved than we are now.

It was for when we slept in trees and we felt a falling motion we would be jerked awake to try and grab a branch to catch ourselves before we hit the ground and got hurt. And from the studies I saw this has even been recorded in infants you can watch lunge their arms/hands out as if they are reaching to catch themselves. 

So when we fall asleep our brain thinks we are literally falling so we get a basic instinct that kicks in to help us even though its just a false positive. 

Edit damn autocorrect

Question: What is the difference between fuel grades at gas station pumps? What do the more expensive ones provide?
Answer: Higher grades of gas have a higher octane rating, which is important because octane is less volatile than cetane (which means it won't ignite when compressed more).  High compression engines or forced induction (which both usually mean higher performance engines) require higher octane ratings to prevent the fuel igniting earlier in the cycle than it's supposed to ignite.  For engines with lower compression, there's essentially no difference (and paying the higher price is a waste of money).

Question: Why are news headlines in the present tense and not past?
Answer: It's all about conveying the sense of immediacy and urgency. When you read a headline it conveys the feeling that this is fresh news.

Question: The Federal Reserve has kept interest rates low for several years to stimulate economic growth during the Recession. What benefits are there to them raising the rates ever if low rates strengthen the markets?
Answer: Raising rates can prevent a boom or bubble, where previously cheap interest rates would allow people to borrow money cheaply on high risk speculation.

Question: Why does no other animal have their own language like humans?
Answer: Some do, mostly whales and dolphins are thought to have some of the most complex languages other than humans.  Bottlenosed Dolphins for example, have been shown to have "name clicks," sounds other dolphins use to get their attention. Human researchers have reproduced these sounds and can still get the same dolphins attention.

Question: How did the first complex organisms learn to mate? Same question for animals that must physically have sex.
Answer: Instinct.  A similar question you might ask is why do 4-legged animals seem to know and be capable of walking shortly after they are born?  It's not very easy to answer because you have to think about what it might have been like if, millions of years ago or whatever, they didn't know how to walk right away.  Evolution has a funny way of dealing out random mutations as a kind of trial and error way of blindly creating random genetic advantages (and disadvantages).  Sometimes the dice are rolled in the species' favor and descendants of that lucky dice roller gain the benefits and have a better chance at survival and out-breed those who weren't so lucky.  In this case I would imagine that at some point in history 4-legged animals who couldn't walk shortly after they were born were hunted to extinction quickly by predators and those who just happened to be able to walk soon after birth reproduced with each other and that characteristic was passed down and perhaps even enhanced by further mutations.  I am not saying a few animals were pressured into giving birth to babies with talents their ancestors didn't have before, but that just by chance a few were born with such beneficial traits (traits could could have began in a more subtle way, like learning to walk in 2 days instead of 4) that gave it and its offspring a better chance at survival.

So, to answer your question, how did they learn to mate?  Well, they just knew, instinctively (and later institutionally) because if there was a species of animals that had no idea how to reproduce they would have gone extinct almost immediately, while the lucky few who figured it out by accident stayed alive and out-breed everybody else.  I should mention though that, probably for a long long while hundreds of thousands of years ago, people were having sex and had little if any notion of the connection between doing that and it resulting in a baby.  For all we know people had these orgies where everybody piled into a gang bang under a full moon and next thing you know all the females are pregnant, most of the babies probably died for a variety of health reasons (no one was a doctor, much less capable of starting a fire or inventing a wheel) and the nomadic tribe population grew very gradually (if they were lucky).  So who started the gang bang ritual?  Probably a couple who had sex in front of others, were visibly enjoying themselves piquing the curiosity of others, and then went off to have sex with other people; thus having sex became popular fast because it obviously felt great and there was little in the way of reasons to avoid it at that time.  Eventually everybody was having sex, dumb as a tomato but having a good time, and the species stood to benefit from it because they needed to population to increase in order to survive.  Monogamy wasn't important, tribes were small, tight knit, everybody knew each other and the children were everybody's children and cared for equally which makes sense when you have no understanding of science or know for a fact that sperm actually fertilize eggs and for all they knew babies "just happened whenever for no apparent reason, and may not have anything to do with everybody having a group shag because it feels good."

I mentioned earlier that small tribes like this think of all their offspring as though the children are children of the entire tribe, not just children of a specific pair of parents.  The same thing kind of went that way when it came to personal possessions; there really weren't any that weren't shared equally.  It was more "ours" instead of "yours and mine".  But at some point someone noticed by chance that having sex with a woman produced a child and decided to think, "This is my child, this is my woman, this is my land, this is my house, this is my this, my that" and that kind of thinking spread quickly in concert with the dawn of agriculture which made living a nomadic lifestyle obsolete.  But that's another story.

Question: When a baby is getting its first teeth, you're supposed to give them something to chew on to dull down the pain. How come when a teenager is growing in their wisdom teeth, they don't feel it until they start to disrupt the other teeth?
Answer: Don’t quote me on this, but you could flick a baby’s wrist and it would most likely hurt. A lot of stuff with them is due to their lack of pain tolerance. They simply can’t handle being uncomfortable. But that may not be completely right.

Question: Putting down animals in zoo
Answer: Did you read the rest of the article? They explained exactly why they did it.

They didn't have the money to relocate the animals, and the new animals they were getting would have killed the old animals -- euthanasia makes a little more sense than a zoo snuff show.

It's more important to look at the population of the species as a whole than any one individual animal -- with regards to the species as a whole, the zoo was doing exactly what it should.

Question: Trademarks: How can there be a DC comics and a DC shoes?
Answer: They're in two completely different lines of business. DC Comics isn't trying to sell shoes and DC Shoes isn't trying to sell comics, so there's not likely to be confusion between customers of the two companies.

So if you wanted to trademark McDonald's and sell, say, cement, you could, but you couldn't sell food under that trademark.

The key question is whether a consumer is likely to be confused and think that one XYZ company is affiliated with another. XYZ Widgets and XYZ Books aren't likely to be confused. XYZ Clothing and XYZ Lingerie probably would be.

Question: Fiber optics
Answer: Fiberoptic communications uses light passing through specially design cables to transfer information.  The data gets encoded as pulses of light, travels from one end of the connection to the other, then decoded at the other end.

Because light doesn't leak and isn't subject to interference, fiberoptic cables can be used to span huge distances.  And because light travels very very quickly, data transfer using fiberoptics is much faster than old cables that used copper.

Question: Why is international calling so much more expensive than domestic calling?
Answer: Let us assume you have to send a note to your friend in another country. There is no postal service. So what you do is pass it to your friend who is travelling to the city to take it up. So your friend travels to the city and there he sees another friend who is in fact travelling to the other country your friend lives in. So when this person reaches the other country, what he does is gets one of his people travelling to the town your friend lives in to deliver the message. 

So now imagine if you have to pay a penny to each of those people who helped you out. Wouldn't this be more expensive than asking your friend to deliver it to someone in the city? Something similar happens in case of international calling. Your network does not have a presence throughout your country. So when you have to call another country, they connect your call to a network who links to a partner network in the other country who in turn pass it to your friend's network. Since this is business, each of them in the chain has to make money and there you have the expensive rates.

Question: Would there be any downside if it was daylight 24/7?
Answer: We would turn into a copy of mercury. Baked in the sun with no water or life. Imagine the moon under a lamp hot enough to turn it to glass, or burn it down to the core/bare rock. Nothing good.

Question: What do nurses actually do specifically? Why does it require an advanced degree?
Answer: Nurses do pretty much everything.  They are typically as knowledgeable as the doctors they "assist" and often perform the tests that doctors prescribe.  Plus nurses need to be able to help patients, which requires knowing a great deal about medicine.

New doctors out of school are usually advised to listen to their nurses.  Odds are high they will know more than they do, even with their fancy degree.

Question: Why is stem-cell research so hated and funded so little?
Answer: The controversy over stem cell research is essentially an extension of the debate over abortion--one source of stem cells for research are aborted fetuses. Naturally, people who oppose abortion are opposed to research methods that profit from it. The results and concept are not that controversial, just this particular source.

Question: Why sunglasses makes someone looking more charismatic/elegant/cool?
Answer: Since not had any responses, a few reasons I would rationalise it down to:


* Positive association - it's used in a lot of films/movies/books as a way of signalling that someone is cool. As a result it's now associated with coolness


* Psychologically it might add a bit of 'mystery' to the person - you don't know where they are looking, you can't 'read' them as easily (a huge amount of our emotions are shown through our eyes)


* At a basic level it can just hide tired/saggy eyes, thus lifting the face and making it look better

Question: Why are virus websites such as "_URL_0_" allowed to have commercials on television, knowing well they are dangerous?
Answer: Because technically they aren't dangerous.  If you pay the fee, they do what they advertise to do.

The catch is how they hook you into paying, by claiming that you have issues, and they spam the hell out of you if you don't pay.  They are annoying nagware, but they don't cause damage to your machine beyond the annoyance (usually) so technically they aren't lying.

The lie is when they tell you that you have 200 errors, you pay the $20, and it "fixes" them.  Technically though, as long as it does what it says (which is fix the "errors") they aren't technically lying.

They however do not destroy data, so technically they are not viruses.  They are nagware of the highest order, they slow down the computer, but they don't allow remote access or destroy/allow access to your data remotely.  At least the ones advertised on TV.

There are other that ARE viruses though that are similar, but are not the ones you see advertised.  They are often a digit off on the website, etc etc.

The ones on TV though don't cause any damage, so they are nagware.  Technically since they slow the computer down, its "damaging" but not in the sense that you lose precious files or expose your personal data to the internet with them.  At least the ones advertised.  

Obviously you shouldn't run any of them, but technically they do as advertised.  Technically.  You and I both know its BS.

Question: Why can't we make batteries that hold dozens of small batteries, then make high amperage chargers to charge them in seconds?
Answer: Batteries are made up of smaller batteries or cells. The problem is regardless how you make a battery, you need to deal with heat when charging a battery. The only way to overcome the problem is to spread the cells out further apart so what you have is a very large, low capacity battery. It's better to have a very dense small battery that takes longer to charge.

Question: The Alabama Senate Election
Answer: Alabama has been a deeply red state (republican) for the last 25 years, and it showed no sign of changing.

So by all accounts, it looked like the election between Roy Moore(R) and Doug Jones(D) was all but a formality.

Until the news broke that Roy Moore had a unhealthy fascination with girls on the younger side. (Think 14-18) and was at one point banned from a local mall, that had warned the local security to keep Moore away from the cheerleaders. 

Since this happened during the height of the #MeToo movement, it got tons of attention in the media. and Doug Jones started surging in the polls. 

In the end, it was close election, but Doug Jones (D) managed to squeeze out a win, in a state, that he has really no business winning, had any other republican candidate faced him he wouldn't have had a chance.

Question: Wouldn't one third of something go on forever?
Answer: No. You've fallen into the trap of thinking that base 10 is the only way to measure things.

We count in 10s because we have ten fingers. But imagine that humans had evolved with five fingers on one hand, and only four on the other.

In that case we'd count in base 9, and then your question becomes simple to answer, as one-third is simple to calculate in base 9. In that kind of world nobody would cut out 3/10th of the pie, throw away 6/10th, and repeat the process with the remaining 1/10th, because it would be as pointless as us (base-10 people) trying to cut something into 1/11th.

A pie can be cut instantly into perfect thirds. It's only our numbering system that doesn't fall easily into perfect thirds. If we choose a different numbering system, thirds are perfectly sane, rational, and simple to create.

Question: Why do doctors have such bad hand writing?
Answer: Here's my 2 cents from a med student's perspective. I've always found the handwriting thing strange. I personally think I have crappy handwriting, but compared to some of my classmates mine looks like a work of art. Any yet compared to others (usually girls) mine is horrible. 

I don't know if there is an actual explanation for it but I've heard many things tossed around... and this is probably my favorite - we have to take so many notes in class that in order to keep up we don't worry about making the writing nice. After doing this for a couple of years we just get stuck with the bad handwriting.

Now, I don't know how true it is any more because most of our notes are powerpoint handouts but its at least a theory. 

Also, to comment on the shorthand thing..... even after learning the shorthand some Dr's handwriting is still impossible to decipher.

Question: Why do some things taste good to some people but bad to others?
Answer: Basically taste buds differ in density in each person. This impacts how the brain reacts to taste. Each body is unique.

Question: How come when I poop my legs go numb, but I can sit at a desk or in a chair for hours with no problem?
Answer: I'm not sure, but maybe you could carry out a control experiment by pooping at your desk.

EDIT: Like, maybe the descending poop compresses a nerve. I was being (partly) serious, guys!

Question: What causes some people to be more tolerant to extremely cold or hot temperatures?
Answer: Some of it also has to do with what you are used to. Here's an anecdote...

I am from the frozen part of the northern midwest. In the winter, it rarely gets above 15 degrees F, and wind chills are often below zero. I lived in this area for 13 years before I went to college in the mid-south (Kentucky). During the first January I was down there, there was a light dusting of snow - not even measurable by our northern standards - and the temperature dipped down to about 35 degrees. I walked to class that morning in shorts and a sweatshirt because the warmth, to me, was glorious. I got about a hundred crazy-stares of people wearing snow pants, heavy coats, gloves, stocking caps, boots... all kinds of stuff. It truly wasn't cold to me at all.

Caveat: I was slightly overweight in college, though I know plenty of people around here (living back in my hometown) that break out the spring/summer clothes the moment it hits 40 degrees.

Question: Why can't you tickle yourself successfully?
Answer: A "tickle" is a pain response which is created by the brain when the nerve sensors receive unexpected stimulation, and it is generally impossible for you to do something unexpected to yourself, and thus normally you can't tickle yourself.

Question: What's so special about the money printing process that can't be replicated?
Answer: There are quite a few anti-counterfeiting measures for US money that make it hard to replicate bills at home. To start, bills are printed on paper that is about 25% linen and 75% cotton. You could obtain paper like that, but paper for bills also has tiny red and blue fibers embedded in it, which I don't think you can buy. There's also a security thread that has the currency amount printed on it and which glows red under UV light. On larger bills (at least the $100 - I'm not sure aobut others) the treasury uses color shifting ink, which changes color depending on the angle you view it from. The treasury also uses microprinting, which is where some lines are printed in such small bits that they appear solid without magnification, but the tiny printed components can be seen when viewed under magnification.

While it would theoretically be possible to replicate all the security features, it would take a lot of expensive machinery and a place to store it. Buying the machinery (if you can even buy it on the open market) would probably raise some flags. And printing enough money to pay for the machinery would raise even more flags. 

What some small-time criminals do is take five dollar bills, use solvents to wipe all the ink off of them, and then use an inkjet to print them as $100 bills. This makes sure that the paper is the right type and will pass the pen test, but you still have issues with matching the exact colors, microprinting, and the security thread.

Question: Why don't girls go bald?
Answer: Testosterone is the culprit which makes men go bald.  One anti-baldness drug (Propecia) acts by decreasing the amount of available testosterone.  Since women have less testosterone they don't go bald as often.

Question: with skyscrapers being built so high, is the air inside them pressurized? And what happens if a window is broken?
Answer: No the air is not pressurized, some of those windows even open. You have to go significantly higher than the worlds tallest building to have pressure be an issue. Its not even an issue on most mountains. Cold is a lot more of an issue.

But no they are fine.

Question: Why does current culture/ideas differ so much compared to a 100 years ago? Was it also like this in the past, say when you compare 1500 AD and 1600 AD?
Answer: From 1500 to 1600, you have a pretty thorough revolution of agriculture in Europe as the first contact with the Americas was less than a decade before the start of the century; there was never a tomato in Italy or a potato in Ireland before this time period. The Renaissance was at its most transformative. This lead to the beginnings of the scientific method. It also transformed music in Europe, laying the groundwork for everything you think of as classical music. And I'm leaving out a LOT of Renaissance.

[This is a world map from 1500](_URL_0_). [This is one from 1570](_URL_1_).

Change happens all the time. Measuring which changes end up being more important tends to take a long time.

Question: How does public key encryption actually work?
Answer: Oh god... this is almost not an ELI5 concept, because you must have the concepts of math and logic available, and no amount of simplifying will change that....

With that said, here goes. There are two main kinds of encryption: symmetric, and asymmetric.

Everyone knows *symmetric*; if you put a password on a Word document, that's symmetric encryption. The password encrypts it, the same password decrypts it. Useful, but vulnerable to a lot of things, including someone else finding out the password.

Asymmetric, which public key encryption is the best-known example, doesn't use a password. It uses *keys*. The relationship between the keys is simple and straightforward: they do the opposite of each other.

There are two things you want to do to a document: *encrypt* it, or make it unreadable, and *decrypt* it, or make it readable again. In symmetric encryption, the "password" does both tasks. In public key encryption, you have two keys, and each does one at a time, and **only one at a time**, of those operations. If you use Key A to encrypt a document, you can't use Key A to *decrypt* it, it won't work. You can only use Key B to decrypt it. And vice versa; if you encrypt with Key B, then only Key A will decrypt. **Never ever ever can you use just one key to do both things.**

So smart people worked out that if you keep one of the keys secret, or *Private*, and expose the other key to everyone, or *Public*, you can accomplish two cool things:

* You can invite people to send you secret things. They encrypt with your Public key, and the encrypted file is safe. The public key can't do *both* things at once... if you use it to encrypt, it's useless to decrypt. So any sneaky spy bastards can steal the encrypted file but they can't decrypt it, only the other key, the Private key, can do that.

* You can send out messages encrypted with your private key. The message is NOT secret, because the public key is... public. Anyone can decrypt it. But that public key can *only* decrypt things coded by the private key, so they know it's from you. And remember, it can't do both things! If they change your message and try to encode it again, with the public key, well, that public key can't then decode it (it can never do both things), so everyone knows it's *not* from you. This is the basis for **electronic signature**.

Now, as for "how does it actually work," there are two answers: logic and math. The logic answer is, there are some problems that are very easy to solve, but very hard to *unsolve*; we call these one-way functions. The simplest, classic case is prime factoring (there's a fantastic little algebra equation that lets you do a cool trick with prime numbers). It's very easy to multiply 67 x 107 and get 7169. But because 67 and 107 are prime numbers, they are the ONLY numbers that divide evenly into 7169. It's challenging for a human to look at 7169 and realize it's 67 x 107. It's even challenging for a computer, though computers are so fast they'd brute-force it instantly.

When you start looking at numbers like 8080031, and wondering what two numbers it factors into, it gets daunting for a human, though a computer still doesn't care. Where the computer cares is when the number looks like 77546620056920588113012600033948388271650013, and you have to figure out what two numbers it factors into, even computers start sweating. And numbers get much bigger than that.

Even so, we're getting too good at teaching computers to do it, and quantum computers will practically spit out the answer, so we are finding other one-way functions...elliptic curves, for instance, are very promising.

I'd add links, but a) other posters have already done so, and b) there is absolutely no such thing as ELI5 for the actual math. Good luck!

Question: Why does urinating feel different when you are sick?
Answer: For a multitude of reasons, among them:

+ When sick your system is generating different chemicals from the immunologic system fight, which generate different contents, pH and even smell for your pee, the different contents and pH can irritate the urethra and be painful
+ Your sensibility usually is higher due to the disease, so you can not only feel more intensively the urine pass, but also the above mentioned irritation
+ Your urination frequency messes up due to the sickness and you end up going to the bathroom at unusual (for your normal daily routine) times, which can also feel different

Question: Cricket. As an American, I'm so confused by it.
Answer: Like baseball, you have a team at bat and a team in the field.  When at bat, the team sends out two batsmen instead of one.  One batsmen stands at one wicket (a wicket is like a base in baseball), and the other one stands on the opposite wicket.  The bowler (a pitcher in cricket) bowls the ball to the batsmen, and the batsman tries try to hit it. Unlike in baseball, they can hit the ball in any direction; there are no foul balls.  When the ball is hit, the two batsman run back and forth between the wickets.  However, they don't have to.  If they feel that the ball wasn't hit well enough, they don't have to move.  Every time they run to the other end, that's a point.  If the batsman hits the ball, and it rolls out of the field of play (kinda like ground rule double), that's an automatic four points.  If the ball goes straight out of the field (home run) that's six points.

The fielding team tries to prevent the batsmen from scoring.  Similar to baseball, they can retire the batsman by catching the ball in the air, by breaking a wicket before the batsman runs to hit (like tagging out at a base), or they bowl over the wicket (like the pitcher throwing a strike, but one strike and you're out).  There are a few other ways to retire the batsman, but they are more technical and I don't know them all.  In cricket, the batting team has 10 wickets (outs), then the teams switch places.  Depending on the type of game, each team has one or more turns at bat.

The other thing to know about cricket are overs.  Overs are like innings, kinda.  One over is six bowled balls.  When an over is finished, the team switches bowlers, and they bowl to the other side of the field.  Some games have limited amounts of overs.  So, even if you don't get out ten times, you would still lose your turn at bat if you run out of overs.

Question: Why are they called "Checks?"
Answer: As in a cheque? 

There have been suggestions that the word chek comes from ancient Pahlavi language which was used in the Achaemenid Empire in Persia. It may have spread from there to Arabic where saqq means a promise to pay a certain amount of money for delivered goods.
(_URL_0_ )

Question: Explain Quantum Entanglement to me like I'm 5.
Answer: When you flip a coin, you know that whenever you see a heads come up, the bottom of the coin is tails. Similarly, when you see a tails come up, the bottom of the coin is heads.

Similar to how you know the two sides of a coin have opposite faces showing, physicists can make two particles that have opposite properties (such as spin). We refer to these pairs of particles as "entangled" - they aren't free to take on any value they'd like to. Just like the bottom of a coin can't be tails if the top is, the spin of one particle can't be clockwise if the other particle is spinning that way too.

Question: Holographic images
Answer: Picture a row of little triangles in a big line /\ like that. As you move your eyes go from seeing the / side to seeing the \ side,  which has a different picture. If measured correctly, this tricks your brain into supplying the missing "movement" between the two images. So one side is A and one is C, your mind fills in B.

Question: We've had photorealistic CGI in movies since the early 1990s ("Jurassic Park," etc). Why don't we have photorealistic video games yet?
Answer: Video games have to render the image in real-time, since your input determines what the next frame has to look like.  A movie, by contrast, can take as long as it needs to get the image quality up to photorealistic levels, taking hours for a single frame, because they only have to render everything once.

Question: When you feel like your heart is skipping a beat, is it really skipping a beat?
Answer: I've been tested for this, and in my case it is that one heartbeat happens sooner than it normally would, and then the next heartbeat happens when it normally would in regard to the first of the three heartbeats, leaving more space between the second and third heartbeats, giving me that fluttery feeling in my chest.

Question: What is is that makes Buddhism a religion?
Answer: >  Then, why is it a religion

Religions don't need to be a Judeo-Christian style monotheism. Through history most weren't. 

 >  and why different from Taoism or other "related" philosophies/religions?

It's related. There's a lot of overlaps in ideas in the same way there's a lot of overlaps between a lot of the more commonly considered Western religions.

Question: NBA Free Agency and the Salary Cap
Answer: The NBA has a soft cap meaning that you can exceed the maximum salary under certain circumstances. If you go too far over you are penalized with a luxury tax. This page has a list of the exceptions _URL_0_ . These exceptions were created to help teams keep players year to year. A hard cap would cause more player movement, like in the NFL, and the NBA doesn't like this because there are so few players per team. 

The Amnesty provision was an exception created during the last CBA. It basically allows teams to get rid of one player without it counting against their cap. This can only be used one time and most teams have already used it.

Question: Does my dog hear his name like I do?
Answer: No. To him, his name is a command just like how "sit" is. But instead of asking him to sit, his name means "look at me/come to me" which ever way you use it.

Question: Why are people so critical of their own work?
Answer: Because any medium is an imperfect translation of abstract thought.

I'll use books as an example, but it works for any media. Everything you know about a language paints a picture in your mind. When you read something someone has written, you can't help but see it. When someone describes a character, you picture that character. This is why it often feels weird when a movie is made about a book, and you see a character who doesn't match the one you have in your head, and it creates dissonance. Sometimes all of the magic movie parts come together and you get someone who is "perfect" for role: this is simply someone who matches up what's in your head.

When you're writing, you're playing a game of telephone. I don't care how good a writer you are, your translation is still imperfect. I can assure you that the Hamlet in my head is not the same Hamlet that was in Shakespeare's head. When you read your own work, your mind reflexively tries to create a picture based on what you're reading, but since those words are an imperfect representation of the idea that was already in your head, your new mental picture doesn't gel, and you get that same dissonance. The fact that they don't match up is frustrating, and you can't help but feel like your writing is terrible because it isn't painting the picture that you wanted. And you may be right! But even the greatest authors experience this self doubt and frustration and endless revision, sometimes as much or more as beginners.

Being a successful artist means learning to work through this process, and teaching yourself how to speak your own language, where you can learn how to translate your own thoughts into a medium or media which others can take in and appreciate.

Question: How do trains pull so many cars? What is the limit to the amount of weight they can pull?
Answer: The locomotive is large, and is pretty much all engine and fuel. Of course there's a limit, but you can increase that by adding more locomotives.

This [Wikipedia article](_URL_0_) describes the record for the longest and heaviest train ever; eight locomotives pulling a train of 682 cars. It was four and a half miles long and weighed nearly 110,000 short tons.

Question: How to Buy Groceries Properly
Answer: Bigger problem with 6 people in an apartment is keeping track of who owns what.

I suggest, at first, generally just buying what you plan to use immediately (1-2 days), with a few frozen/canned things (frozen pizza/burritos, TV dinners, canned soup/chili) that you can break into on short notice.  This will prevent you from buying too much of things you don't need  &  having them go to waste.  Things you can safely stock up on are dry staples (pasta, rice, beans), small pieces of meat (chicken breasts and "assorted pork loin chops" (they're the ugly end pieces from when they make pork chops, perfectly good meat, just funny looking) frequently go on sale  &  freeze well if you put them individually in ziplock bags).  You might also want to consider frozen veggies.

In general, you want to refrigerate your fresh veggies  &  buy things frozen that you want to freeze (freezing veggies for long-term preservation isn't something you should be worrying about now).  Meat, OTOH, should be frozen if you're not going to use it within a few days (unless already frozen).

As for separation, you want to leave your veggies alone until you're ready to use them. Most of you meat will be butchered for you unless you're buying whole chickens (whole chickens, OTOH, are really cheap.  Roasting one or tossing it in a crock pot is *really* easy.  It's one of /r/cooking's go-to recipes  &  good for a group), so that's not really an issue.

...and fuck ramen.  Spend $15 on a rice cooker and buy a 20lb bag of rice.

Question: Is there a correlation between a full moon moon and odd behavior?
Answer: My girlfriend works as a midwife and says the same thing. She hates working night shifts on a full moon, "because it is madness".

I don't believe it actually makes a difference, there is no scientific proof.

Although I'm aware that these old wives tales, and a lot of folklore regarding full moons does stem from odd behaviour at these times.

Question: What is corporate welfare? (no politics please)
Answer: Take major league baseball for example. For a particular team, the stadium they play in may be 50 to 100% public money. To build the stadium, local government may take away land from other private owners. The team is exempt from local and state taxes that other local businesses have to pay.

For agriculture, farmers get very cheap crop insurance from the government. Subsides to grow and not grow certain crops.

For technology and manufacturing. Some companies get low interest government back loans, free government land and no tax for a number of years.

For oil, gas, coal and mining. Companies get to take valuable minerals out of public land for a very low price, and they often leave the land in a very polluted state.

For finance companies. Government often assume the risk (if a student doesn't pay back his student loan, government pay it back), but let the financial institution earn the rewards (that 8 to 19% interest on the student loan).

For government contractors. Government overpays on services and products, it may not even need.

Question: Why is it that when i get 8-9 hours of sleep i wake up tired but when i get 3-4 hours i wake up energized?
Answer: When we sleep our brain goes through a cycle of activity. This cycle will vary between 80 - 120 minutes and may repeat 4 or 5 times during the night. The "deepest" part of this cycle is called REM (Rapid Eye Movement) sleep. This is the state usually associated with dreaming. We will enter REM sleep various times throughout the night, each time lasting longer than the last. 

If you wake up during REM sleep, you may feel more groggy than if you woke up in an earlier stage of the sleep cycle. If you don't have a regular sleeping schedule then your body may not regulate these cycles and you might wake up in the middle of one and feel "worse". Where if you wake up after 3-4 hours of sleep you may be waking up during a more natural part of the cycle.

Question: Why can't we put metal objects in the microwave, yet the inside is made of metal, including the metal mesh on the inside of the door. Is the metal coated with some special paint that makes it ok to be exposed to microwaves?
Answer: The electrodynamics are sort of complex. I am not saying you should try this at home, but a lot of it has to do with the shape of the object rather than the material, so you can *technically* safely microwave metal.

A microwave is a form of electromagnetic radiation, just like light. You don't really have to know what that means other than the fact that it's radiation that interacts electromagnetically (scientists are good at naming stuff).

When a microwave hits metal, it essentially just bounces off. That's why your microwave oven is lined with metal, and it's why there's a mesh on the window (that's also metal), it bounces off of that too because the holes are small enough.

The reason it bounces off is that inside a metal, there are lots of electrons (tiny charged particles) that are free to move around. That's why metals conduct electricity, the charge can flow around them easily (it's also why they're shiny). When a microwave hits a metal, the electrons inside the metal get pushed around by the wave, and they kick back a new one because of their motion. So, metals reflect microwaves.

What's tricky is that when all those electrons move around to reflect the microwave, they sometimes end up clumping together. This is especially common on the object's edges: think the tines of a fork or the blade of a knife. The reasons for that are... mathy, to say the least, so let's just say that it happens.

So, lots of electrons clump up on the blade of your microwaved knife, and since there's so much charge collected together, they arc. Arcing is when electric charge jumps through the air from one spot to another: lightning and static shocks are both examples of arcing. It's that arcing that causes fires and such when you microwave metal.

The walls of your microwave are designed in such a way that they don't arc: the shape (the *interior* of a box) doesn't have those sharp edges like a knife, so the charge doesn't collect in a dangerous way. It just spreads out evenly, and everything's fine.

Again, **don't fucking try this at home seriously**, but you could absolutely safely microwave a spherical metal object. The issue is that if you tell people it's *sometimes* safe to microwave metal, people would, you know. Die.

edit: I should say, you could safely microwave a spherical metal object if there was something else in the microwave. Otherwise, it would be the same as running an empty microwave, which is also something you should not do.

Question: Can 2 or 3 people have the exact same voice?
Answer: Close enough to cause confusion, anyway. When I was in high school, this happened more than once:

SFX: Phone rings

My Dad: Hello?

(pause)

My Dad: I think you must want PossibilityJones. Just a moment. PossibilityJones! Phone!

Me: Hello?

My Girlfriend: Stop it! You're just screwing with me! I know it's you all along!

Question: How are the songs on the radio encoded into radio frequencies?
Answer: If it is analog radio there are two ways AM and FM.

In both cases you have a carrier wave at the frequency you set your radio to. The carrier wave has higher frequency then the sound. The sound you can hear is  < 20,000 hz and the carrier wave is in the 1,000,000 hz range

AM (amplitude modulation) changes the amplitude of the carrier wave with the amplitude of the sound ie a multiplication of the signals.

FM (frequency modulation) is more complex and you change the frequency of the carrier wave with the amplitude of the sound and keep the same amplitude.


You can see an [animation] (_URL_0_) on the wikipage of how it looks.


And if the question is for digital radio then the answer is more advances because the song is encoded like a mp3 on a computer and then transmitted digitalt on like hos WiFi works (not the same but similar).

Question: How are nearly perfect polygon (usually hexagon) bubbles formed when I submerge a drinking bottle, with a circular mouth hole, under water and let the air escape?
Answer: For the same reason [these suckers](_URL_0_) make hexagons; it is the least amount of edging surface required to make the cells or bubbles.

Question: How are jars vacuum-sealed?
Answer: The contents are heated as they are packed, at very least to pasteurize them. Lids are applied hot, and as the content cools, it creates a partial vacuum.

Question: Why do Americans consider Barack Obama to be black when he is actually mixed?
Answer: By American convention, a person is black if they have basically any black ancestry.

And more importantly, Barrack Obama self-identifies as black.

Question: why animals like pandas can eat just one plant and don't have any lack of nutrients
Answer: They do have a lack of nutrition that's why they sleep 90% of the time,

Its why they have to eat almost a ton of bamboo a day to survive,

They don't have enough energy for sex which is part of the reason they are going extinct.

Question: When a massage therapist comments on how tight your back is and how you have so much going on in your muscles and trigger points, does that mean something is actually medically wrong?
Answer: Not necessarily. People can have tight muscles because if stress or over use, etc. This is not to say that a person with lots of tension can't have other problems, but that I just normally is not the case. 

When a person is new to receiving massage, certain things can be expected. They will often be told what their problem areas are, and they are different for different people, for example, a dancer or a runner is going to have in most cases different problem areas than an accountant. How well hydrated a person is (or is not) can also have an effect, as even mild dehydration can contribute to muscle pain, or spasms. This is why they like to give you water afterwards. Lightheadedness is possible after a massage, so it's always best to get up slowly. Sometimes a person can be sore the day after a massage, especially if deep tissue was done, but if it lasts more than a day, the therapist was applying too much pressure.
A massage therapist should never diagnose, as it is outside their scope of practice, however, if he or she really thinks you have a medical problem, they can suggest you see your doctor. It is not the tightness of the muscles that will be cause for a therapist to consider this, but other factors. Perhaps moles, or other skin issues, but most often information that is communicated by the client.

I have been a massage therapist, licensed by my state, since 2009. When I think someone has a medical problem, I don't ignore it. When someone has large or multiple moles/birthmarks, I ask if they get their skin checked, or if they were aware of the ones on their backs. I've had people thank me for this before. After having a few regulars explain symptoms to me, I have suggested they see their doctors for blood work. They always come back and tell me what they find out.

If a person often complains of numbness, burning, or tingling sensation in their limbs, I suggest they see a chiropractor as well, as most often these are nerve symptoms, and chiropractic adjustments may take the pressure off the nerve (often nerves are impinged by the vertebrae)

Anyway, sorry for the long reply, I hope you found this useful.

Question: Can you explain to me (like I'm five) what microprocessor stepping is, and how it works?
Answer: The speed usually advertised on your microprocessor (like 2.8ghz) is it's highest speed.  When the processor is running at it's highest speed, it can do the most amount of work (and fastest).  But running at the highest speed also makes it use up the most amount of electricity.  

What microprocessor stepping does is limit the speed of the processor to only what it needs for it's current job.  For things like typing an essay, or browsing reddit, a modern microprocessor usually needs very little speed (sometimes even less than 25% of it's maximum).  But if you are watching a movie, or playing a video-game, it will probably need all of the speed.  Almost all processors today use stepping to conserve power, while still being able to do the most complex tasks you need.  This feature is built into the microprocessor, and can be used by any operating system (Windows / Mac / Linux) to control the processor's power usage.  



Hope that explains it :)

Question: Explain me voltage, electricity and current like I'm literally 5
Answer: Electricity is the build up of electrons.

Current is the movement of electrons.

Voltage is how hard the current is being pushed.

Amperage is how many electrons are being pushed.

Question: Bose-Einstein Condensates
Answer: Preface: I'm doing a minor in physics, and just aced, my intro to quantum physics course, which (in addition to the introductory physics course I took last year) covered this. However, I am far from an expert.

So, in order to explain what a Bose-Einstein Condensate is, we first have to understand some things about Bosons, and fundamental particles. So, in school, most of us learned about atomic particles: protons, neutrons, and electrons, however that model (proposed mostly by Niels Bohr) was found to be incomplete. In reality it turns out that there are even more fundamental particles than protons and neutrons (electrons exist on this smaller scale as well). There are two types of these particles: bosons and fermions. The key point of Bosons is that they can exist in the same quantum state, basically, this means that multiple bosons are exist in the same place at the same time.

This allows bosons to form Bose-Einstein condensates. Essentially, the bosons all congregate in one place, and this forces the tempeture of them to become really, really low, in fact its becomes so cold, that it approaches the coldest temperature that can exist in the universe (0 kelvin). This is important, because it allows us to observe quantum effects on a much larger scale than we normally can (whats known as macroscopic level). 

At this point in times, Bose-Einstein condensates have no "real-world" value, and instead are used to study effects at the edges of our understanding of quantum effects, primarily examining quantum interference effects (how quantum particles affect each other).

Question: Why do movies use a green background to film with CGI and not other colors?
Answer: Green is generally the farthest colour from human skin tone, being the opposite of red, so when it comes to removing it you avoid issues with holes in the person. Also modern digital cameras devote twice as many pixels to green as for blue or red, so they're a lot more sensitive to the green spectrum.

Question: Difference between a key change and mode change in music.
Answer: From what I understand all the modes retain the same base note.  So if you know enough about whatever mode they are playing in you can figure out what note they keep ending with or going back to.  When you change the key the base note is different.  For example the difference between C major and C mixolydian is that in the latter the 7th note goes down a half-step.  They both have the same base note (C), but the scales are different.

Question: How does discarded yard debris, such as a pile of grass clippings, get hot enough to combust?
Answer: I'm confused as to what you mean, but here's what I think you mean: "How can very green plants burn if there's so much water in them?" 

Water interferes with combustion because it boils at a lower temperature (usually) than the thing that we're trying to burn. 

This is important because water stays at the same temperature as it boils, so the material can't get above that boiling temperature until all the water has boiled. 

Boiling water takes a ton of energy. The energy released by the material burning has to be greater than the amount of energy needed to boil the water and ignite surrounding material. 

For a damp log by itself, there's no way. But if we get a nice fire going, the energy released by the fire will be more than enough to drive off the water, allowing the wood to burn.

Question: Why can't electric cars charge themselves like combustion engines can charge it's own battery?
Answer: Because the combustion engine uses the combustion to charge the battery via a generator (alternator in a car). The electric car uses the battery to run the car. So using a battery to charge a battery is both pointless and will result in a net loss of energy due to heat.

Also, electric cars do charge themselves when you use the breaks or are coasting downhill in cruise control and it's slowing you down by applying a generator to the drive shaft (?) causing resistance while generating electricity

Question: How does Shampoo and Body Wash work so effectively when it only stays on our body for a few seconds before getting washed off?
Answer: If I understood correctly, you are basically asking how soap works. 

Soap/shampoo/body wash has molecules that can interact with both the water and the fat/dirt you want to remove. These molecules have a polar portion, which binds them to water, and an apolar portion, which makes them able to interact with organic matter (fat, dirt, basically what you want to remove when using soap). So in a way, soap allows the organic matter (dirt) to become "soluble" in water. You're not really destroying the dirt molecules per se, as much as allowing them to be washed away and go down the drain.

Question: Why is red, white and blue so prominent in flags throughout the world?
Answer: Red often symbolizes bravery, courage, or blood shed in warfare. White usually symbolizes purity and peace. Blue symbolizes peace, justice, and vigilance.

Question: What is mitochondrial DNA and what it tells about human evolution
Answer: You live in a house, but you have some extra room. So you let your friend come over and live in a room in your house. He has his own stuff for his room but uses your kitchen, bathroom, washer/dryer. In exchange he pays for your power bill.

This is a symbiotic relationship, you help each other. Mitochondria are the remnants of a once fully independent species of bacteria that fused with larger bacteria and formed a symbiotic relations (this occured over hundreds of millions of years). The mitochondria, when they first moved into the cells of our ancestor bacteria brought some of their own stuff, one of which was it's own DNA, which is still found in them today.

Mitochondrial DNA don't mutate as much or as fast as regular DNA, and they are only passed on from your mom (they were present in her egg cells when it fused with the sperm). So now we have a really good marker for tracing differences between broader cultural and ethnic groups.

Question: Why does squinting improve my eyesight when I don't have glasses on?
Answer: Glasses bend the incoming light to focus it appropriately to the back of your eye.  When you squint, you're doing the exact same thing, but very imprecisely.  It bends the light just enough to help you get by in a pinch.

Question: Why are some economies self-sustaining while others require a massive trade surplus just to function?
Answer: A lot of the value produced in the USA is by peoples brains and not their hands. If you import a ton of cheap garbage from china for pennies and export knowledge in medicine, engineering, business, finance, etc. For hundreds of dollars per hour, its hard to look at that as being BAD for the us.

Question: If two half-asian, half-caucasian people have a baby, is there a small chance only the caucasian genes are passed on?
Answer: Mathematically yes. Statistically no. That would require:

- that each parent had EXACTLY half of its genes from each origin, which is a very small chance.

- that they have EXACTLY complimentary halves (every gene that was asian in one parent would have to be caucasian in the other parent), which is again a very small chance.

- that the chromosomes all crossed over at exactly the right place to switch it out, which it another very small chance.

Question: Why does our electoral system have "super delegates" who don't have to cast votes matching the popular vote of their district?
Answer: It's not really "our electoral system", it's the Democrats' nomination process that has it.

Technically, those people don't have to cast votes based on anything, but the majority are almost certainly going to vote for whoever ends up winning the vote-based delegates. It came up in 2008 - a lot of superdelegates came out to support Clinton early on, and ended up switching their votes to Obama after it was clear he had won the popular process. It'd be political suicide for the party to swing the vote away from the primary results.

As to why it exists, the cynical reason is that candidates do a lot of work to try to convince these superdelegates to come out in support of them early on in the process, and they don't want to lose that feeling of importance.

Question: How does the body make blisters?
Answer: heat damage increases capilary permeability and plasma (the liquid that supports blood cells) "leaks" under a thin skin layer, getting trapped under it.

Question: What causes the side effects of antibiotics, and why do they put "take with our without food" on the label when I fell like I'm going to throw up whenever I take them without food?
Answer: You have bacteria in your gut that help you absorb nutrients. These good bacteria are also killed when you take broad spectrum antibiotics.

Question: Why do we hear about so many soldiers in the present day wars in Iraq and Afghanistan returning with PTSD, yet it seemed to be nonexistent in those returning from WWII?
Answer: Back then it was called shell shock.  Damn sure happened frequently but just not as discussed much like most mental illnesses

Question: Evolutionary History of Pandas?
Answer: I suspect it is because of their diet.  Taxiphyllin, what babmoo shoots produce, is a toxin that produces cyanide in the gut.  So most animals can not eat it or in large quantities.  We can only eat bamboo after it has been prepared correctly.

Basically the giant panda was able to survive because it could eat a plant that most animals could not.

Question: Why can't Palau, Marshall Islands, and Micronesia provide for themselves and not be in Free Association with the United States?
Answer: Ever since WWII ended, there has been a strong decolonization movement throughout the world, and many countries are either granting their overseas possessions independence, or giving them full status as an integrated part of the nation.

Many of these places want independence, but aren't equipped to take on all of its responsibilities.  Many of them take intermediate steps first, like a free association, before they are ready to break free entirely.

Question: Why does Google Maps suggest a slower route?
Answer: The problem is if two places are far away there are too many possible ways to travel. Instead google thinks of points along the way and calculates the fastes way between those points. It then adds those ways up.

Question: how do birds mate, and why can we still eat an egg?
Answer: The chicken eggs in the grocery store have never come in contact with a rooster. They are unfertilized eggs.

Question: Why is a bra just called a bra when it covers two things, but a pair of panties is called a pair when it only covers one thing?
Answer: We don't call them a pair of shirts either.  Panties came from pants, and pants originally came from hosiery, which came as two separate pieces.  We kept the "pair" nomenclature even after we starting joining the two leg pieces together in the middle.

Question: Why do some say Diet Soda is bad for you?
Answer: First things first: diet soda is *not* known to be bad for you.

Now for the elaboration.

Diet soda is soda that's sweetened with something that isn't sugar. The thing that it's sweetened with tastes sweet (obviously) but has no nutritional value. So diet soda can taste sweet while having no nutritional value to it whatsoever. Nutritionally, it's basically equivalent to tap water.

Some people assert that the non-nutritive sweetener itself is harmful. This is generally not supported by the facts. There are a variety of non-nutritive sweeteners on the market, and some have been subject to more scrutiny than others. But *all of them* have been tested for safety in humans and found to be okay to consume. They can't be sold otherwise.

A couple of the non-nutritive sweeteners, in fact, have ended up being the most thoroughly tested food additives in existence, specifically because people keep asserting that they're harmful. These are saccharin and aspartame. Saccharine is actually an example of how food-safety testing can go wrong and generate a false positive; it's a fascinating story, but I'll skip it in the interest of brevity. Aspartame, on the other hand, has *never* been shown to cause any kind of problem in anybody. Both are absolutely safe in responsible quantities.

Now, there is some interesting data out there about the relationship (if any) between the consumption of diet sodas and weight maintenance. One would think that since diet sodas are nutritionally void, consuming them wouldn't contribute to weight gain, right? Some correlational data suggests otherwise. In some studies, people who regularly consume diet sodas gain weight more and more quickly than people who don't.

Trouble with that is, those studies don't control for other lifestyle factors. If you drink three diet sodas a day and run four miles three times a week, you're probably going to control your weight better than if you drink three diet sodas a day and live a sedentary lifestyle while eating McDonalds every other day.

Meanwhile, other studies show that there is in fact no correlation between weight maintenance and diet soda consumption anyway. So at best, there's no conclusive trend there yet identified.

Now, there has been a specific assertion about diet soda. It's that if you consume diet soda, you're getting *sweetness* with no nutrition. This, it was hypothesized, might affect your *appetite,* by reducing the *satiety* you get from eating. In other words, it'll make it harder for you to eat responsibly, because you'll be "tricking" your brain into thinking sweet things have no nutritive value.

The interesting thing about this assertion is that a rat model supported it. Rats were given artificial sweetener and did, in fact, eat more than the control rats.

However, when the experiment moved to humans, the opposite result was found. People were given fMRI scans — which show activity in the brain — while sipping either on water sweetened with sugar or water sweetened with an artificial sweetener. The ones who got sugar showed dramatic activity in their brains, while the ones who got artificial sweetener didn't. So there's no evidence that drinking diet soda can screw up your appetite in the way that was suspected.

So the short version is that diet soda is not known to be bad for you in any way. But like everything else, don't go nuts. Be responsible.

Question: - Why is it that Peter Pan is portrayed so much by women in plays and new reboots of the story?
Answer: It's much easier to make a woman look like a 14 year old boy than it is to find a man that looks like a 14 year old boy.

Question: Why do I get hiccups after one tiny swig of whisky?
Answer: Hiccups are a result of one of three things : expansion of the stomach, movement of stomach acid or irritation of the phrenic nerve, which controls the diaphragm.

As it is unlikely that a swig of whisky can cause the stomach to expand, it is most likely whisky irritating the phrenic nerve or a less likely, a quick reflux action of stomach acid.

Question: What would happen if every single American with student loan debt simultaneously defaulted on it?
Answer: The banks would be bailed out by the government, who insured the loans.

Taxpayers, including those newly-graduated and working debtors, would have to make up the losses in higher taxes.

Deadbeats would lose their credit rating, and have to pay exorbitant interest rates for years to come.

Student loans would become prohibitively expensive and fewer of the next generation would be able to attend college.

The job market cannot find adequately-trained Americans and seeks visas to hire foreign guest workers.

Question: What causes the need to pee?
Answer: It's been a while since I've studied it so I can't elaborate too much. Basically after we reach about 200mL of urine our bladder stretches too much and we feel the need to pee. I was taught that every 50~100 mL of urine will re-trigger this feeling until your bladder can't stretch enough and is forced to contract which causes you to pee. 

The nerves are called the pelvic splanchnic nerves which is part of the inferior hypogastric plexus. 

_URL_0_

Source: Working on my masters in exercise physiology

Edit: If you want to read about [the plexus](_URL_1_) or the [Splanchnic nerves](_URL_2_)

Question: When you burn your tounge, why does it feel like a different texture?
Answer: The answer is in the question.  Burning skin damages it.  If it's damaged, it's going to be a different texture until it heals.

Also, your tongue has nerve endings just like the rest of you.  The tongue itself can feel things.  When burned, those nerves aren't working properly any more.

So your tongue will feel different to the rest of your mouth, and your mouth will feel differently to your tongue.

Question: What is the purpose of the "Do not eat" packets often found in packaging? What would happen if it was to be consumed?
Answer: it is there to absorb moisture and keep the thing its packed with dry.

it is non toxic but may irritate your digestive tract..


btw its silica gel

_URL_0_

Question: Why can reading glasses be purchased over the counter, but glasses for nearsightedness cost hundreds of dollars?
Answer: As I understand it, "reading glasses" are basically wearable magnifying lenses at various strengths. Glasses for nearsightedness (or farsightedness) are far more than that - in essence, they need to be carefully shaped to reverse the abnormalities of your natural lenses and eyeball. This is a somewhat complicated calculation, and the cost of the glasses reflects the complexity of creating your custom lenses. The charge for an eye exam is completely separate from the cost of a new pair of glasses.

Question: how are ETFs priced?
Answer: Each share of the ETF owns very specific fractional shares of the other stocks.  If we have an ETF that is 0.01 shares of AMZN, GOOG, and AAPL per ETF share then it should be priced at 0.01*(1715.97+1152.26+188.84) or $30.57 per share.

If you were a market maker and you owned a large number of shares of this ETF, you could turn them into the underlying assets.  If you have 1 million ETF shares you could trade them for 10,000 shares of AMZN, GOOG, and AAPL which you could then sell for their listed prices.  You could also take 10,000 shares of each and turn them into 1 million shares of the ETF

If the price of the ETF diverges from the price of what it contains then this creates an arbitrage opportunity(free money) where you can buy the stocks cheap in one form and sell them for a profit in another.  The automated traders are quick to take this chance for free money so the price of an ETF is usually pretty close to the price of the assets that make up each share of it(the net asset value, or NAV)

Question: What is GitHub, what is it used for, and what do the key terms like fork and commit (there are others too) mean?
Answer: Git is one form of revision control, there are many others like subversion, etc.  Revision control exists as a means to manage contributions and updates to code, especially code that multiple users work on at the same time.  It does this by keeping track of all changes made, who made them, merging different changes together into the same code, allowing you to roll back specific changes, allowing you to work on two different versions of the same code (for example, live and development), etc.  Typically, there will be some sort of central repository which collects all the submissions from various people, Github is one of them.  In case of Github it's great for open source coders to work together, or possibly even small companies (large companies will likely have their own repository rather than relying on a third party website).  Another advantage of a site like Github is that if you have written code that others use, and there's a bug that needs to be fixed or even a feature someone would like to see added, they can grab a copy of your git, make the changes, and then submit them to you (at which point you can accept the changes or reject them).

As for terminology, there's a bunch, I'll go over a few of the common ones.  This is based on Git/Github terms, some of them may be slightly different depending on what you use.

Commit - You submit changes made along with a description of what changes were made
Push - Push local changes to the central repository (until you do this, all your changes are only local)
Check/Fetch/Pull (I've seen all of them used) - Grab latest version from repository
Fork - Make a copy of an existing git.  If you like someone else's code and you would like to start developing it in a different direction, you might do this, or if you find a bug in their code and want to fix it you would use then and then use...
Pull request - Someone forked your code, made changes, and requests that you accept their changes into your git. This is great when it comes to helping out with major projects where there's always a lot of things that need fixing. 
Branch - As mentioned above, when you want to work on two different "versions" of the same code (such as live and development).
Merge - Combine two branches together, or in general combine multiple changes into one version that has all of them
Conflict - If, during a merge, specific code was changed by both versions being merged together, the version control won't know which one to pick, so it needs to be resolved by selecting the correct one

I'm sure there's tons more I can't think of right now, but that covers the basics.

Question: How does "declaring war" on a country work? And how does a country know who is attacking them? Couldn't the US go bomb a country and say another country did it?
Answer: Yes, a country's leader could go attack another country and blame someone else. However, the complexities in chain of command and the number of people that would be required to know are so high that people would find out eventually. Even Russia, which Putin keeps on lockdown with state-controlled news and the like, couldn't keep their invasion of Ukraine a secret indefinitely. With a free press and a division of power like in the US, it wouldn't take long at all for someone to start putting the pieces together.

At the very least, if the President did start to wage some sort of "secret war" without Congressional consent, eventually things like soldiers and ammunition and fuel would start going absent. When it came time for Congress to pay the bills, they'd find out and be pretty upset because it's exclusively their power to be able to formally declare war.

World War 1 was officially declared by the German diplomat to the Russian prince, to give an example. Nowadays it's difficult to say how a country like the US would declare war against an equivalent power, because would you really want to give a nuclear power forewarning that you're about to attack?

Question: How do muscles get stronger as you workout?
Answer: In a couple of different ways, actually. First and foremost they get stronger with lots of exercise because they get better at recruiting more fibers and contracting harder, which is mainly due to the training effect on your central nervous system.  Secondly the muscles themselves get little micro tears in them as you lift weights.  When these little tears heal back your body heals them back bigger and stronger than they were before.

Question: how are chip cards more secure than swipe cards?
Answer: The chips generate a rolling code and would be imposible to predict or duplicate.  So suffice it to say that you cannot spoof the card.

So unless you actually steal the card (easy to identify and report) you are out of luck.

so any retailer that uses a chip is effectively immune from credit card fraud or atleast bogus claims of fraud.

Question: If I do something illegal on the internet, how can the police track me down?
Answer: I doubt that they would unless you did something that caused physical harm to someone or something.

Question: Why are rainbows always curved?
Answer: Rainbows are actually circular, however, ol' earth gets in the way. But there's more to it, too.

The sun's light has travelled so far that it's coming basically straight at us, there are droplets of water in the air that splits the light apart into colors, and bounces them back towards you. However, there's only a certain area where the water can be where it's perfect for this.

The real reason, however, is because water droplets are round. So since when they're at a certain distance with light coming in at a certain angle, any droplets in that circle will project those colors to your eyes.

Question: Why do obsessed fans develop the desire to kill celebrities or the object of their obsession and idolization?
Answer: I'm sure someone with psychology credentials will come up with a much better response, but my guess is that it has something to do with a sense rejection. These people "fall in love" with the people they are obsessed with and feel rejected that the feelings they have are not mutual. In extreme cases this manifests in a real world way (e.g. they stalk their obsession and there are legal repercussions) but in many it's probably mostly imaginary or fantasized. Out of rejection-driven rage they get revenge by trying to kill their obsession and/or they attempt this based on the "well, if I can't have you then no one will!" mentality. In any case, I'm sure that there's also some undercurrent of jealousy in play as well.

Question: Why does it feel warmer when it's snowing outside, compared to it just being cold without snow?
Answer: Bunch of wrong answers here...

Snowfall implies negative degrees celcius (otherwise it would rain). As the temperature drops below zero, the humidity in the air quickly drops aswell. Dry air is much easier to shield yourself against than humid air. 

This is why 1 degree celsius above zero is such an awful temperature. You get all the cold with the humidity.

Question: What are “non-free” packages in Linux?
Answer: Used in debian-style repositories and others, the non-free section refers to packages that do not have source code published under a "free" license.    Such packages/software are distributed free of charge, but the source code is not available and/or users are not allowed to modify and create derivates of the code.

Question: Why does an explosion "suck in" the surrounding environment and then light up?
Answer: There are three different aspects to that that together form your "explosion": 

1. If anything gets "hot", it starts to emit light. If air and gas get hot  because of a chemical reaction and as such starts to glow we call that "fire". 
2. If anything gets "hot" it expands its volume. If you make gas very hot, it expands outside and pushes everything away. That is what we call "explosion".
3. If the gas in 2. got pushed away "fast" and "thorough" enough, the original spot has lower pressure ("less air") than the area surrounding. If you want you can call that a weak vacuum. The air around (and all other gasses) flow back and if that flow is strong enough, it can "pull anything with it", i.e. the "sucking in" from the title.

If you have a "lot of heat" very "sudden" - then the "expansion" and "lighting up" happens very fast. That is what we call "explosion". If it was *very*, *very* sudden, you also can get a "sucking" effect, but you need a really sudden explosion for that to be significant, the "throwing away" is usually much stronger.

(Thermobaric bombs are made to create a very strong, sudden blast and they can have that "sucking" effect, i.e. [non-ELI5] shredding people's lungs.)

Question: Is there a scientific reason my room gets colder with less stuff in it?
Answer: When you've got a lot of stuff in your room, you've got less air in it.

In the same enclosed space, it takes less energy to warm a smaller amount of air than a larger amount.

So when you have less stuff in your room, you have more air and better circulation, and it takes more energy to warm it, and if you're the only source of energy, it's not going to warm as much, and will feel colder.

Question: PCOS and birth control
Answer: You may want to ask this in /r/PCOS. There will be a lot of women there who have been through the same issues you have.

Question: Why does my nasal sinuses clog up once I lay down to rest?
Answer: Nasal sinuses are essentially holes inside your skull that clog up with mucus (snot) when you have a cold. 

Each of these sinuses have an opening in them which allows the mucus to drain from the sinuses into your nasal cavity (inside of your nose). Most of the sinuses have their drainage openings on the bottom of the sinus so when your head is upright the mucus can drain into your nose pretty easily via gravity. This means that when you are lying down, they tend not to drain so well and clog up.

Question: Why do we have a bracketed tax system, and why don't we use flat tax rates for everyone?
Answer: As ELI5 as was explained to me: A flat tax, like 11%, would be a larger share of a low earning citizen than a high earning citizen.  A person earning $100 would be more affected by paying $11 dollars than a person earning $100,000 would be paying $11,000.

Question: How Bi-Planes are able to time/shoot their guns without the bullets hitting the propellers.
Answer: While all of the responses so far are good (the wiki link explains quite well in-depth, with illustrations), I'd like to try making this as ELI5/TL;DR as I can:

The pilot's trigger is not really the same as a trigger on a handgun - it does not make the weapon fire. Instead, it works more like a safety - when pressed down the safety is off. The trigger is attached to the propeller - the propeller will pull the trigger each time it is in a position where the bullet will miss.

Question: Does wearing a hat contribute or cause hair loss in any way?
Answer: You said in any way. Yes it can, if you have psoriasis, wearing a hat can trap heat and sweat, aggravating the condition. Which can cause temporary hair loss.

Otherwise generally no.

Question: How do babies learn languages so quickly?
Answer: Not like they have much else to do, poopin' don't take too much time.

Question: If every company that has moved "hq" overseas suddenly had to pay the taxes owed to the US gov't, what would happen?
Answer: The better question is: why should we tax worldwide profits of corporations anyway?  The taxes that they are avoiding by moving overseas are **taxes on profit (edit: typo) made outside of the US**.  We are alone in doing this, since every other country in the world only taxes corporate profit made within their borders.  It doesn't make sense, and it puts American companies at a disadvantage internationally.

Question: How exactly is data transferred wirelessly? Bluetooth, Radio, Satellite, NFC, Wi-Fi, Li-Fi etc?
Answer: Imagine the hose in your garden. Its connected to a faucet. If you open and close it fast enough and in a pattern, water comes out of the other end also in a pattern.   
  
Now, devices have recievers and transmitters. These know how to "read" and "write" patterns respectively. We can now set this up so that certain patterns can mean certain symbols. A collection of symbols can ultimately form an email, a message on facebook, and more complex streams like pictures and videos.
  
in real life, these devices turn on and off at tremendous speeds, and as a general rule, the faster you can turn on and off, the more information you can send in a single time frame.

Question: What it means to cut someone off
Answer: Basically it is when another driver passes your car, but gets into your lane without leaving reasonable space between your front bumper and their back bumper.

This can be, and often is, accompanied by the offending driver immediately reducing speed to compensate for sliding in between cars recklessly, creating the potential for you rear-ending them.

Question: Is there a reason that some devices (like a remote) have their batteries installed in opposite directions, as opposed to a flashlight which does not?
Answer: When you put batteries in *series* (i.e. stacked up end-to-end), their voltages add together but the current stays the same.

When you put batteries in *parallel* the voltage stays the same, but the currents add together.

Installing the batteries in opposite directions is a way of putting them in series without having to have a really long thin stack of batteries.  The top of one battery connects to the bottom of the next, and so on.

Question: How does carbon dating work if all of the atoms being tested were originally created in stars?
Answer: That's because the Carbon-14 was not made during the big bang, or even when our sun and the earth were formed. Carbon-14 is constantly being created by decay of Nitrogen-14 in our atmosphere. When something is carbon dated, it's dating the carbon that was created during the lifetime of that organism.

Radiocarbon dating is really only useful for organic material, and only to about 50,000-60,000 years ago, due to the half-life of Carbon-14.

Question: Why are certain animals (e.g. dogs, cats) domesticated more commonly than other animals (e.g. deer, raccoons, etc)?
Answer: Dogs and cats are better suited for the tasks we give them. There is not a lot that a deer can do that something else we have tamed could do more efficiently. Although reindeer are used in extremely cold environments that would not be good for horses.

Question: Why does it start to rain much more heavily immediately after thunder?
Answer: Thunder is produced in a type of cloud called a "cumulonimbus".

In this type of cloud, air gets pulled higher and higher by the air currents. As it does so, its temperature decreases, and because cold air can't hold so much water in its invisible gas form, the water turns to visible liquid water droplets.

Eventually these droplets get large enough that they can't be carried in the air current any more, and they start to fall.

This on its own would be enough to cause rain. But what makes cumulonimbus different is that the rain drops get caught in further air currents on the way down, and get carried back up into the cloud again. The cycle repeats many times, with the rain drops going up and down many times, *each time getting bigger*.

This movement results in droplets rubbing against each other and building up an electric charge, which is why we eventually see lightening and hear thunder. And the movement also results in the droplets getting bigger because they spend so much time in the cloud, resulting in heavier rainfall.

Question: How does a song "grow on you" after a few listens
Answer: Our brains like repetition. We like being familiar with something. So after you hear it multiple times you "know how it goes" and automatically start liking it better.

Question: Why, when I have a headache - If I bend over or bend down, the headache becomes instantly much more painful until I stand up straight again
Answer: Increased pain when you bend over or press on the area is symptomatic of a sinus-related problem, possibly a sinus infection.

Question: Why do University computers get a 200+Mbps connection while my laptop only gets 10mbps.
Answer: Gigabit speeds are pretty much restricted to *wired* connections.  Shared wireless isn't up to the task.

Question: How do mirrors have different levels of "zoom"?
Answer: By being curved - Convex mirrors have negative magnification, making things look smaller than they actually are.  Car side mirrors are very slightly convex so that you can see a wider angle of view, which is advantageous when driving.  Concave mirrors like those on a telescope are the opposite, having positive magnification.

Question: so why do companies make mail-in rebates?
Answer: People who are attracted by the rebate price and buy it, but never mail it in.

Question: Why do people keep buying EA games if they know they will have to 'pay-to-play'?
Answer: Because EA games is the biggest player in the gaming industry and they make a lot of games.

Remember that Reddit is a forum for people who have a problem.  You don't hear the people who are happy because they are either downvoted to hell or too busy having fun to engage with those who are unhappy.

EA is making an unbelievable amount of money off of these games, otherwise they wouldn't make them.  A few people pissing and moaning on Reddit isn't going to stop them if the profits keep coming in.

Question: Why are razor cartridges so expensive?
Answer: 1. People pay that much for them
2. Once you buy the handle, since each has it's own interface, the choice to swap razors includes more costs than just the difference in blade prices.  
3. The major razor companies pay stores enough to ensure that only a few brands will fill the shelves.  
4. Go check out Dorco Razors or old-style double edged razor blades, for much less expensive options.

Question: The enormous salaries of professional athletes. When did this madness start? Is it a result of owners, players, or consumers?
Answer: Let me ask you this, what would you rather be done with the money? If the sport is making enormous sums of money, based on the efforts of the players, would you rather the money just go to the CEOs of the sports team?

If you look at professional athlete's salary as a percentage of what the team makes, as oppose to how many dollars they get, it puts it in a much better perspective.

Question: What's it called when you have a memory of hearing something while looking at another source?
Answer: It's called associative memory. Any time you're remembering things, there's a whole lot of other potential activations than what you recall. Sometimes the connections are strong enough to pull a peripheral memory into full recall.

Question: Why do we feel the need to use hand motions when talking even over the phone when the other person can’t hear us?
Answer: The real question is why we bother to talk on the phone in the first place when the other person can't hear us.

Question: Why does it hurt if I drink through the nose?
Answer: We didn't evolve to drink through our noses like for example elephants. We evolved to drink through our mouths. We smell and breath through our nose. Water getting in our noses implies to our body that we might be underwater and getting water inside us, so we might be in danger of drowning. So the unpleasant feeling of water in our nose acts like a warning and motivation like "avoid this happening, get out of these conditions", instinctively directing us away from the danger of drowning.

Question: Why are stocks worth anything? (particularly ones that don't pay dividend)
Answer: As a shareholder you are a part owner of the company and are entitled to what an owner would be entitled to(profits from the company). In the short term the company may not have profits, or wants to grow the business so the Board of Directors(elected by the Shareholders)decides to reinvest the profits instead. In the long term, the goal whether you're .00001% owner or 100% owner is to grow the company to a degree that you can pocket the profit. Also the shares themselves change value. As late as 2001 you could Apple shares for under 15 bucks. By 2011 they were over 400 dollars a share. A 40,000 dollar investment back then would make you a millionaire just in the value of the shares not to mention the 17,000 plus a year you'd be collecting in dividends. They've since done a stock split so their share price is much lower, but you'd have more of them.

Question: Why isn't all internet data encrypted?
Answer: Encryption adds overhead, notably CPU time in encrypting/decrypting the payload and the accompanying latency of doing so. The vast majority of traffic gains no benefits from being encrypted, so it would be a waste of time and resources.

Question: How does vector and matrix operations differs in CPU vs GPU?
Answer: Most modern CPUs have vector units, so they do not differ from GPUs in any meaningful way.

Intel's x86 family of microprocessors initially supported IEEE scalar floating point arithmetic with the x87 family of coprocessors. This architecture was integrated into the CPU starting with the 80486, providing a separate register stack of 8x64-bit (80-bit internal) registers usable only by the FPU.

In 1997, Intel introduced the MMX instruction set. The MMX instruction set used the same register stack as the x87 FPU, but used the register stack for vector integer and vector logical operations. The base x86 instruction set supports only scalar integer and scalar vector operations on the CPU's general purpose registers.

In 1999, Intel introduced the Streaming SIMD Extensions (SSE) instruction set. The SSE instruction set extended the register stack used by x87 and SSE to 128 bits and added even more vector integer and vector logical operations.

In 2001, Intel introduced the SSE2 instruction set. SSE2 is intended to fully replace MMX and x87 (although x87 computes to a higher precision as it uses 80-bits rather than only 64).

When AMD introduced the x86_64 microarchitecture, SSE2 was adopted as a standard component. Furthermore, the number of registers in the SSE stack was doubled from 8x 128-bit registers to 16x 128-bit registers.

Subsequent instruction set extensions including SSE3, SSSE3, and SSE4.x were introduced over the years.

In 2011, Intel introduced the Advanced Vector Extensions (AVX) instruction set which greatly simplified vector instructions for reasons that aren't germane to this post. This instruction set expanded the vector registers from 128 bits to 256 bits. AVX extended vector integer and vector logical instructions to 256 bits.

In 2013, Intel introduced the AVX2 instruction set which extends floating point instructions to 256 bits.

A 512 bit version of AVX2 is available on Intel's Xeon Phi coprocessor.

Intel's architecture uses the same hardware to execute scalar and vector floating point operations. That is, scalar floating point operations are performed on the vector FPU hardware. This is not true for scalar integer and scalar logical operations; there are multiple scalar integer ALUs per core in addition to vector integer ALUs and vector logical ALUs.

The vector portion of Intel's CPUs is remarkably similar to that found in a GPU, with a few key differences.

1. The instructions driving the CPU's vector extensions are all proper x86 instructions and are executed on the CPU. No special setup, driver, or runtime is needed for a program to invoke them. However, the operating system does need to be aware of the instruction set to ensure that it will save the registers during context switches. 

2. Memory is loaded into the vector registers in the same way that it is loaded into the general purpose registers; same for storing.

3. The CPU's vector extensions run at the CPU's clock speed and are a part of the CPU's pipeline.

From an efficiency perspective, there is virtually no overhead involved in setting up vector arithmetic on Intel's CPUs. There is however overhead involved in setting up vector arithmetic on any GPU. However, GPUs have a massive number of vector units and for particularly large and parallelizable working sets the overhead will quickly be overcome by the sheer amount of throughput.

For any non-parallelizable working set, the CPU will usually be the best option.

For a small parallelizable working set, the CPU will usually be the best option.

For a large parallelizable working set, the GPU will usually be the best option.

Question: What is with the fighting culture in hockey?
Answer: Your question's a little vague. 

If you're asking why do people like watching people fight in hockey, it's because it's entertaining in the same way that mixed martial arts cage fighting events and boxing are entertaining. People get a kick out of people kicking the shit out of each other, even if that's not the prime purpose of the sport.

If you're asking why there's fighting at all in hockey, it's because it's a violent sport that requires strength and endurance to play at the professional level and is extremely competitive and makes players' blood run hot. If you're gonna play and win, one of your team's weapons is intimidation, and one of your own team members beating the hell out of some member of the other team is one way to either put them in their place or let them know you're not gonna be pushovers yourselves.

Question: had a shower thought...why do the drawings you put in fogged glass stay there even after a session of defogging and into the reformed glass?
Answer: The oils on your finger stick to the glass and less water vapor will stick to the oily sections of the glass when you re-fog it.

Question: [NSFW]Does the Quran really say this? If not, how is it being interpreted by ISIS?
Answer: Islam has a concept which is often translated to english as "slaves" and other times as "servant" because it really has a meaning inbetween those 2 words. 

This servant does not have his own freedom, and is in that way comparable to a slave to some degree. But at the same time he is made a part of the family. The prophet Muhammad commanded muslims to treat them well. To feed them and clothe them the same way that you feed and clothe yourself. And to not hit them. And to not put them to hard work unless you help yourself. So there is a very big difference from how we in the West understand the word slave. I will quote some sayings from the prophet regarding this below. Many slaves held very important jobs with a lot of power and responsibility (so not just manual work). 

Islam generally forbids all sexual relations between people except between a man and his wife. However, since a female "servant/slave" also lives in the same house as the owner and is under his guardianship there is a verse in the Quran which seems to allow sexual relations between the female slave and the male owner. The exact interpretation differ. Some say it is if they get married and others that it is allowed even without marriage. But it is an allowance for them to have voluntary sex with each other. it is not a permission for rape (since this would be like beating and worse which is not allowed). From what I know there is agreement that if she gets pregnant she is a free woman and is treated that way, and the child is recognised by the father (in fact many caliphs during islamic history were sons of such a slave woman but were made heir to the throne by their father). 

Islam also puts huge emphasis on it being a good deed to give slaves their freedom and it is very, very recommended. Many muslims believe that the islamic rules would naturally lead to slavery disappearing over time, but that it was impossible to simply abolish it from one day to another since this could cause the society to collapse since it was dependent on the institution (anyone who wants to see how impossible it is to abolish slavery from one day to another can watch Game of Thrones where Daenarys tries to do this and it goes wrong). Many muslims also sees it as rules which were used in specific times - for instance after a war - where you would have many children and female widows with no man to protect them from other men. These women and children would then get a guardian who had to feed and clothe them, but who instead had the right to tell them to help with work etc. It is the opinion of many scholars if not all scholars that slavery is no longer allowed since all the people that used to be slaves have been set free and it is not allowed to make new people into slaves. 

ISIS have reached opposite conclusions than all islamic scholars. They ignore the prophets command to treat the slaves well and instead allow rape. In their sick mind the permission to have sex with them is the same as permission to rape. Apparently they do not know the difference. 

Here are some of the quoted from the prophet: 

"The Prophet, peace and blessings be upon him, enjoined good treatment of slaves and he would say, “Feed them from the same food you eat and clothe them from the same clothes you wear, and do not torture the creation of Allah the Exalted.”

Source: Al-Adab Al-Mufrad 188

Narrated Al-Ma'rur: At Ar-Rabadha I met Abu Dhar who was wearing a cloak, and his slave, too, was wearing a similar one. I asked about the reason for it. He replied, "I abused a person by calling his mother with bad names." The Prophet said to me, 'O Abu Dhar! Did you abuse him by calling his mother with bad names You still have some characteristics of ignorance. Your slaves are your brothers and Allah has put them under your command. So whoever has a brother under his command should feed him of what he eats and dress him of what he wears. Do not ask them (slaves) to do things beyond their capacity (power) and if you do so, then help them.' "
— Sahih al-Bukhari, 1:2:30

Question: What makes computer hacking difficult, and not something a computer itself does?
Answer: Well in some cases, it does. But that's another story.

Consider what computers do: very simple tasks, *very* fast. They don't (usually) screw up.

Now hacking consists, fundamentally, of finding cases where people told the computer to do the wrong thing. At a very basic level, this is a deviation from expected behavior, which makes it...unpredictable.   Computers suck at it because it's a *difficult* problem that can't easily be broken down into simple problems.  
Or in a nutshell, it is very hard to predict the unpredictable.

Question: Why do some biscuits take longer to completely soak if completely covered by liquids instead of slowly dunked?
Answer: When you dunk the biscuit, the tea replaces the air inside the biscuit. The air has to be able to escape the biscuit for this to happen. This is easy if part of the biscuit is still dry, because the surface is porous. But when you completely dunk the biscuit the porous surface is covered by tea, which resists the passage of air. Try putting a handkerchief up top your lips and blowing through it. Then try it with a sopping wet handkerchief, and you'll see the difference.

Question: What is a Jehovah's witness? What's that all about?
Answer: EDIT: [suns36orange](_URL_0_) has graciously provided links to actual material generated by the Jehovah's Witnesses and can answer questions from the perspective of someone who actively believes. I honestly don't and I was a child at the time I was so my views are coloured in that regard. 


Former JW: They're another sect of Christianity which believes that everyone else got it wrong. Main things I remember from my early childhood include a lot of meetings at the Kingdom Hall (church). They believe there are only ~~444,000~~ 144,000 going to heaven and everyone else gets to live on super Earth after the apocalypse and a 1000 year reign of Satan. After which Satan gets destroyed for good (right now he's just locked up). No holiday celebrations of any kind except Passover and wedding anniversaries. I was told this was worship of things that were either evil or not God. No flag worship (national anthems, saluting the flag), and everyone's favourite, proselytize actively to try and save as many people as possible. Yes we all knew we were annoying, but God told us to. Most of the time I got the sense that everyone had better things to be doing. Good thing to know, once you're out, you're out. Disfellowship is what it's called. So a good catch all to get them off your doorstep is to just tell them you've been disfellowed. You're kinda allowed to go back to church if you choose, but you're in a back room away from everyone else and they can't associate with you. 

Wittness congregations range from super liberal to super conservative. I was lucky enough to grow up in a fairly liberal one. Other people will have horror stories relating to abuse and segregating yourself from the community. Elders are the leaders of the congregations. I have no idea how they are picked other than they are old and male. The Watchtower Society is the main office and distributes all the literature they stuff into your doorjam when you're not at home or don't answer the door. They're a crazy bunch of money grubbers so far as I've read into them. They've predicted the end of the world a few times and failed. They've lived lavish lives off the tithe that members must give (I don't recall how much).

Question: How do us humans know how to have sex?
Answer: If nothing else, experimentation with sticking one thing into another and having it feel good. A penis and a vagina are located in the same general region and probably wouldn't be difficult to figure out that one fits the other pretty well. 

No contact with any other human being would likely also come with no stigmas attached to such experimentation.

Question: Why, if I live in Jackson, MS, my Amazon package went from South Carolina to North Carolina (the opposite direction).
Answer: Not if it had to have it's own truck to do so.  Most of the carriers use a "star and connector" model for delivery.  For a long time, every fedex package that left it's "region" was routed through TN because this simplified logistics and made economic sense.  Increased volume has allowed for more local replications of this model, but...the same principle is used.  It's better to have full trucks and planes then empty ones even if it means transporting a given package the long way.

Question: Why don't cars sound like the explosions in their engines?
Answer: As others have said, insulation plays a great role - an explosion in a sealed box is not going to cause much displacement out of the box.

However, there's another factor.  Explosions are discrete when you have spaces between them.  But what if they are really close together?  A car going past you might have an engine running at 2000-4000 rpm - which is more like 33-66 rotations per second.  It's kind of complicated but each rotation of the engine fires multiple cylinders - maybe 2 or 3 depending on engine type.  So we're now talking about 100-200 explosions per second.  This means that the explosions of the exhaust are vibrating the air at 100-200Hz (Hz=cycles per second).

These frequencies are right in the range of human speech - 85-180Hz for males, 165-255Hz for females.  It explains quite clearly why an engine could have a "Haaaa" sound - the detonations of the engine are pretty much at the same frequency as a person humming.

This is quite remarkable - that the physics of an internal combustion engine would happen to provide for detonation at the same frequency as a human voice.  Depending on how the physics of engines turned out it could easily have been super low (10s of Hz) to super high (1000s of Hz) where a toddler could not make a "Brrrr" sound to imitate a running car - he/she would simply be unable to reproduce the sound.  Needless to say, future toddlers might make no sound at all when playing with their toys since cars are rapidly turning electric and therefore nearly silent.

Question: How is online shopping safe?
Answer: For example, when I buy something online, the online shop uses my card details and uses that to take money from my bank account. So why can't they just randomly take large sums of money from my bank account? Is it all just based on trust? The bank account doesn't know any difference between "The customer just bought $5 of stuff, transfer the money to me" and "The customer just bought $2,000 of stuff, transfer the money to me". The vendor can easily fake large orders like this.

Question: Why are Pit Bulls a more dangerous and unpredictable dog compared to other breeds?
Answer: They're not. Unfortunately, a fairly large majority of pitbulls are located in lower-class, poverty stricken urban cities/neighborhoods. This could be because they have a large build compared to other breeds. But, because these dogs are usually trained to "protect" and "intimidate," it's just a case of classical conditioning. A pitbull pup is no more dangerous or unpredictable than a golden retriever pup. It's just a case of bad circumstance.

Question: Why aren't we doing anything about the colossal amount of trash in the pacific ocean?
Answer: Because it isn't what people think.

The Pacific gyre is filled with plastic, it's a huge problem, but the plastic is millions of tiny pieces suspended in the water. 

To 'do something' you'd have to filter billions of gallons of water without killing every living thing in it and then find some way to remove the plastic accumulation from the local biomass without again killing everything.

Question: Why does smoking cigarettes make my hangover seem a thousand times worse?
Answer: EDIT2: I see I may have misunderstood the question. Perhaps OP was asking why smoking while hungover makes the hangover worse. Perhaps they were asking why smoking while drinking makes the hangover worse. I answered the second question. The answer to both is the same: unknown.

Doctor here.  This is the type of question that invites a lot of speculation based on various popular myths about what causes a hangover. Since the process underlying a hangover itself is not well known, an explanation on why it would be exacerbated by nicotine is going to be even more speculative. 

 However I want to offer something more than just "nobody knows". One likely explanation could be explained by the phenomenon  of the date rape drugs. In the emergency department it is not uncommon for young women and sometimes men to come in complaining that their drink was spiked.  What we find after a toxicology screen is typically no evidence of any of the date rape drugs but rather a very large amount of alcohol.   What happens is that people lose count of the number of drinks but they've had and when they are more intoxicated than they expect, they blame a date rape drug that never existed. 

 I expect a similar phenomenon is happening here. Simply put, the nights that involve both cigarettes and alcohol are probably nights with a greater amount of drinking or staying up later or partying harder in general.  Could nicotine and alcohol have some synergistic effect leading to a greater hangover? Sure it's entirely possible.  However this phenomenon is likely not well studied, well understood, and most importantly is likely far overshadowed by the social factors associated with combining the two as discussed above. 

EDIT: there are only two papers on all of PubMed that result from search terms "nicotine alcohol hangover". One is totally irrelevant. The other is almost totally irrelevant. Here is a link to that second one: _URL_0_ .  Terms "alcohol cigarettes hangover " produced one paper on marijuana, "ethanol cigarettes hangover" got no hits. 

Point being, no real data.

Question: Why gas stations promote that their gas is ethanol free.
Answer: We as humans figured out a way to turn corn into a fuel-additive. It's cheaper but our current internal-combustion engines aren't really built to effectively utilize it.

Like you're five...

You freakin' love some mac 'n' cheese and can eat it all day, every day, for every meal, and be fine.

Mac 'n' cheese is a bit expensive so Mom finds a way to mix in some 2% milk and not use as much cheese so she can save a few pennies.

Only, your stomach isn't used to 2% milk, so you occasionally have cramps. And the milk doesn't provide as much nutrition so you require just a little bit more of it.

EDIT: To angle this towards your original question: They're saying that their gas is better for your engine and not "corned down" with ethanol (which may damage your engine and not produce as much energy).

Question: Why would the U.S. or its companies sell military technology it currently uses to other countries allies or potential adversaries?
Answer: Lets look at it this way.  Israel, for example, is the US's ally, right?  Generally speaking, the US and its allies have common goals and mutual interests, so Israel having superior American weapons means that they are better suited to pursue and/or defend their mutual interests.

Secondly,  allegiances are generally pretty strong.  It's rare that a country with strong vested interests turns coat and dumps their current ally, so the idea is that they are safe.  That being said, not all allies are treated equally.  While the US might form an allegiance with Ethiopia, it might send or sell retired obsolete (by our standards) military equipment, but it probably won't send F-35s for the reason you suggested, that it may be vulnerable to intelligence breaches or the ally changing.  

Finally, allegiances are a tit for tat arrangement.  Going back to Israel, they are firmly American allies, but its not always a smooth relationship.  Lets say Israel is causing more problems on the Gaza Strip than normal.  The US can say (privately) "We will withhold the next shipment of F16s until you guys take some heat off the strip."  Or the other side, "Israel will continue to offer public support of American interests in North Korea, as long as you keep the planes coming."  None of these analogies are perfect, but you get the idea.

Question: when resetting electronics such as a wireless router, why does the amount of time matter with regards to unplugging the device?
Answer: Most electronic devices have circuits built into them that "level out" the electrical current coming into it, to prevent the device from malfunctioning if there is a power surge or a sudden drop in mains voltage. 

That circuit has some electrical elements called capacitors in it. (capacitors are basically tiny batteries) Those capacitors can keep a device running for a few seconds (or more), even if the power is unplugged. This is where the wait time comes in when unplugging: You have to wait for the capacitors to discharge, or you haven't really done anything by unplugging.

Very low power devices (or devices which can enter a "low power" state) can run for significant periods of time (several minutes) on leftover capacitor charge.

Question: Why does a single repeating drip of water drive us crazy when a small trickle of water does not?
Answer: A trickle is a constant noise and is easy to cancel out. A drip is catching your attention every 5 seconds (with a 5 second drip frequency) because there is silence in between the drips. This makes it hard to focus on anything else which is more and more frustrating for each drip.

Question: Why do I feel sharp pains in my pelvis and ass when I see videos of people getting hurt?
Answer: I've tried to research this and not come up with much, but I've been searching for a sensation between my navel and solar plexus.

Question: If I froze some ice at -10 degrees and another piece at -50 degrees, would the -10 melt faster because its less frozen?
Answer: It would melt sooner assuming they are both heated at the same rate, yes.

One piece of ice would need to absorb 10 degrees C of heat to start melting, and the other would need to absorb 50 degrees C of heat.

Question: Why do we have that special attachment to our own bed?
Answer: It's because we spend fully one-third or more of our lives in it.  We sleep in it almost every single night.  When you see something or do something that often,  it becomes familiar.  when humans become familiar with something they grow to like it and the attachment often grows the longer it goes on.  Think about the foods you loved as a kid.  You probably are it a LOT, and that's one reason you love it, because you are it so often that it became familiar.  It's the same way with your bed

Question: How can Donald Trump, a man who regularly makes obscene statements and engages in twitter insults, be at the forefront of Republican nominees running for president of the United States?
Answer: A large part of it is that Americans are very tired of politicians that pussy-foot around topics, pander to the political wind, and are percieved to be (rightly or wrongly) beholden to their campaign donors.

Trump is percieved to speak his mind honestly, and he's rich enough that he isn't dependant on campaign donations from special interest groups. This is refreshing compared to what Americans have come to typically expect from politicians that refuse to address issues directly and speak a thousand words without actually saying anything.

Note: I do not particularly support Trump, and several of his possitions conflict with my political values. This is meant as an explaination of my assessment of his appeal.

Question: How does Switzerland's politically neutral stance work? What protects them from external threats?
Answer: 1st: money. During WWII they stored nazi gold and allied money. 
2nd: it's a mountainous country with a militia-style army (in theory every man is in the army and has a weapon at home) and they have plans and preparations in case of war that would completely close off the country, everyone would evacuate to the mountainous regions and fight guerrilla style. Basically invading Switzerland would be extremely hard and costly for anyone and not really worth the trouble.

Question: What is a spider doing when it sits on the wall for an extended period of time?
Answer: In a parallel universe, on spidereddit: "What is a human doing when it sits in front of a screen for an extended period of time?".

Question: Why are bus steering wheels (nearly) parallel to the ground whereas car steering wheels are (nearly) perpendicular to the ground?
Answer: Professional bus driver here. It has to do with the angle of the rod that connects the steering wheel to the tires. Since the bus driver is much more elevated and basically sits directly above the tires the steering wheel needs to point almost straight down in order to connect. The driver of a car sits behind his wheels and as a result, the steering wheel is at a different angle. Here are some diagrams to better explain it. The first one is a bus, the second is a car.

_URL_1_

_URL_0_  


Side note: In most newer buses you can adjust the steering wheel to make it more like a car's.

Question: Why do black socks leave lint in between my toes but white socks don't?
Answer: Because you're white and the black lint shows up better

Question: What were the purposes of the Nazi concentration camps?
Answer: The original purpose of the concentration camp was to imprison the Nazis political enemies.  This was not *quite* so fantastically despotic as it might appear; Germany had been rocked by violent demonstrations, street fighting, and violence between the revolutionary Communist Party supported by the USSR and right-wing militias.  In fact, Germany's socialist party had previously declared martial law in Prussia, a state where they controlled the regional government, and were doing a pretty good job suppressing political enemies who were trying to subvert socialist rule with violence. So something had to be done to control political violence and radicalism in Germany; but the Nazi Party approached this in the most cynical way possible and actively framed all possible opponents as violent radicals and ended up putting all sorts of leftists, of any stripe, into prison camps along with violent criminals and other social undesirables.  Then they added to that a number of extremist elements from within the Nazi party (basically, leaders of a paramilitary wing who the Nazis didn't need any more, because they now gave orders to the *real* military).  Many of these labor leaders and Nazi "brownshirts" were just flat-out murdered, but the ones who were imprisoned really were just being warehoused.  It's not like they couldn't kill whomever they wanted.

Subsequently, the Nazis added more and more people to the camps, eventually embracing all of the Nazis' bêtes noires.  Political dissidents, religious dissidents, homosexuals, cultural degenerates, lazy people, Soviet POWs, whatever.  Adding the Jews to the camps was, in itself, not spectacularly different from nastiness in other countries at the same time.  For example, in 1941, the US bundled up all the US citizens of Japanese descent living on the West Coast and shipped them off to concentration camps in the Rockies.  The official US rationale was that they were "the enemy within" and there was no way to be sure which of them were spies, collaborators, and secret saboteurs, so it was better to lock them all up just to be sure.  The Nazis had always had the same ideology about the Jews.

The movement of Jews into concentration camps was accelerated as Nazi Germany faced more and more of a dilemma about housing (Allied night bombing destroyed far more civilian housing than anything else) and food. At first there was no specific plan to kill the Jews, although you know how these things go... the "concentration camp" was invented by the British, who figured out that if you herded lots of Boers (Dutch South Africans) into crowded, dirty camps and didn't feed them, then they would die like flies of infectious diseases.  The first mass-killings of concentration camp inmates were probably of Soviet POWs. In 1942 the relevant Nazi administrators apparently came to the conclusion that, of all of the zany pre-war ideas for what would happen to Jews (send them to Madagascar, for example), the simplest solution was to kill them.

 >  Were they producing anything for the war effort? Slave labor essentially? 

Yes, they were producing all kinds of things. The book *Schindler's Ark* is a semi-fictional account of one German businessman who got contracts to produce goods with Jewish labor, you can read it if you are interested.

 >  If so, why were so many people killed in droves when they could have aided the war?

There are three basic theories:

1. Nazis be crazy, yo

2. Intentional executions at the concentration camps were a small part of the total death toll; the major problem was lethal epidemics among the prisoners, especially as crowding increased and the available food and medicine decreased as the war got worse and worse for the Nazis

3. The Nazis didn't have enough food to feed their slaves anyway, so it was easier to work them into the ground and then shoot them.

Question: Why does it feel like your heart is in your throat when you're nervous/anxious?
Answer: You have major veins and arteries with blood pumping to and from the heart in your neck. What you're feeling is the increased blood pressure from an increase of blood flowing through those veins and arteries in your neck.

Question: Why is it that when I fart while wearing pants and sitting down it feels like there is a bubble moving between my jeans and skin?
Answer: My (educated) guess is that it is an actual bubble. Fabric can contain gasses (not very well, but some of it), so it might very well be that a bubble of gas lifts the fabric from your skin and moves  until it comes to a place where it can freely escape into the air and poison you enemies.

Question: Why have Washington and Colorado not released people imprisoned for pot?
Answer: Because those people committed crimes. Just because something is legal today does not suddenly make them not-illegal when the crime was committed.

The flip side of this is that you can do something that's legal today and not be charged when they change the law next week.

Question: (Conflicting info online) What genes determine eye color? Can a blue and a brown make a blue? Brown and a brown make a blue?
Answer: In both cases, yes.

The brown-eyed gene is dominant while the blue-eyed gene is recessive.

A person with brown eyes can have either one brown-eyed gene and one blue-eyed gene, or two brown-eyed genes.

A person with blue eyes has to have two blue-eyed genes.

So a blue-eyed person and a brown-eyed person who happens to be of the "blue-eyed gene and brown-eyed gene" variety can produce a blue-eyed baby.

Two brown-eyed people who both happen to be of the "blue-eyed gene and brown-eyed gene" variety can also produce a blue-eyed baby.

Question: Why can small creatures such as Ants lift things much larger than themselves?
Answer: There's an mathematical law that pops up in nature called the [square-cube law]( _URL_0_) which simply states that as an object gets bigger, its volume increases faster than its surface area by a factor of a cube compared to a factor of a square.

This is relevant to biomechanics because muscles get stronger according to their cross sectional area, which grows with the square of the radius of the muscle. The volume (therefore weight) of the muscle (and the rest of the animal) grows with the cube of the radius of the animal. This means smaller muscles are proportionally stronger per unit weight than larger muscles, because the volume shrinks faster than the cross sectional area.

Other small animals use hydraulic pressure and not muscles to move, but the explanation is the same.

Question: When you look at someone welding, it hurts your eyes. Why is it that when you look at a video of someone welding, it doesn't hurt your eyes?
Answer: Welding torches emit ultraviolet and infrared light, which can hurt the eyes. Since cameras are only designed to pick up visible light, and monitors are only built to display visible light, UV and IR don't get projected by the video.

Question: Why are rocket scientists considered some of the smartest people?
Answer: The USA went through a period where we were racing with the Soviet Union to make milestones in space exploration. During that time there was a huge amount of government investment and public expectation toward the field, and this attracted the best of the best in many fields toward constructing the technological marvels that space rockets are. A rocket scientist would need both advanced education in engineering and physics, and was afforded generous salaries and social benefits for their contribution to the space race effort. This reality of such a person's value to society fueled the birth of the saying.

Question: Why are there no hreen, blue, true red or puple mammals? All other animals (insects, reptiles, fish, birds, etc.) come in a rainbow of colors; why are mammals so limited?
Answer: It's our hair that colors almost every mammal, and hair can only come in so many colors: browns, reds, yellows. 

Note that "blue" in most animals is structural, not pigmented color. The feather/wing/scale is actually microscopically shaped so that it looks blue, unlike our skin/hair which is pigmented. You can find neat pictures of pretty blue butterfly wings backlit, showing they're actually pigmented brown like a drab moth wing. Blue is a really rare color in nature. 

Green is hard, too. Plants do it just fine but we don't grow chlorophyll. Green snakes and lizards are actually structurally blue with yellow pigment. They turn blue when they die and the yellow pigment breaks down, leaving only the structural blue. 

Straight red is also hard. Cardinals and flamingos are only reddish from their diet. Koi can't turn gold if they don't eat the right algae.

Purple is also rare (who wants to be purple?), but again, some red pigment and blue sctructural trickery can make it. 

Hair is not shaped well for sctructural coloring. Unlike a scale or feather or insect wing, it's not patterned and orderly enough for the structural blue trick to work well. But even then, you can find people with natural, very black hair that has a bluish sheen to it, and that's why. For the most part, though, we're stuck with our pigmented colors.

Question: The existence of North Korea
Answer: NK is still a place because it is a country. China hasn't taken them over, because Russia and China have diplomatic ties with NK. They  may not be good, but there is ties. As others have said, they gain nothing from taking over NK.

Question: Why buying a new car is a negotiable price instead of being a fixed price
Answer: Because in any business, if you're fighting for one dollar and ended up losing ten because of it, you'll get fired. 

So they're not gonna lose ten-whatever thousand just to save one or two.

With cars, there's a minimum price that they have to sell at (which is never the advertised price). The sales person then has that margin of trying to get the biggest profit possible with that car, and even if you go for barter the fuck outta the car and manages to make a massive saving, they're still making the intended profit. 

You're not actually losing them any money by negotiating, you're just doing yourself a favour.

Question: Does the earth 'leak' into space?
Answer: it does, solar winds strip little bits of our atmosphere away, we lose a few tons every day.  some is replaced by micro comets/asteroids.

net net its relatively small, and does not pose a threat to us on geological time scales (IE wont cause appreciable harm before the sun eats us in 10 billion years)

Question: why can't nations conquer other nations like in the past.
Answer: Before the Napoleonic Wars, total conquest of another region was relatively rare. Only a few ancient and medieval powers were capable of it. Rome, Byzantium, The Arabic caliphs and the Turks, Charlemagne, Genghis and Kubilai Kahn, and various chinese dynasties. It took a very long time, like 20+ years, and the cost in resources was vast. "limited war" was the norm, because armies are so expensive.  With the dawning of the industrial age, and the invention of "total war", the process became moderately easier. This is why you see massive empires being dreamed up relatively often as soon as industrialization becomes realized. Larger armies and more weapons became cheaper. Total war is incredibly destructive, and its ultimate expression, nuclear weapons, are so much so that they are unusable in any realistic conflict where any party hopes to gain something. In the strictest sense, nuclear weapons mean that any military force that has massive territorial ambitions runs into the problem of "mutually assured destruction." So what we've seen then is a return to the more pragmatic forms of limited war, where one country might bite off a province or two, or acquire maritime rights or move the border a few hundred yards, but anything more than that becomes problematic. Complicated networks of alliances and "nuclear umbrellas" don't make things any easier either. When working out the diplomatic consequences of who can invade who, you have to calculate who their allies are and what plausible deterrent they have. Also, [nations](_URL_1_) are not inherently belligerent. A nation refers to a large group of people who share a common language, culture, ethnicity, descent, or history. What you are referring to, I believe, is an [empire](_URL_0_). Worldwide media culture is nationalistic in nature. That is why you see such sensitivity about countries being conquered, because the media supports such ideas as national determination, and is very much opposed to the forming of empires.


TL;DR: Nukes, groups of alliances, and nationalism.

Question: Why does the cold cause your teeth to chatter?
Answer: It's your body shaking to attempt to make you warmer, the teeth chattering is just a side effect of the shaking

Question: What causes your body to feel different types of pain? From toothache to paper cut to sunburn, why does the physical sensation vary so widely?
Answer: Your brain is responsible for different types of pain (throbbing pain, sharp etc.)  Your brain 'knows' where the pain is coming from and associates it accordingly. Its a useful feature to have because if you say, get scratched by an overzealous cat across the face, you need to be able to differentiate the pain to know what is hurt. If pain was just general, you wouldn't be able to differentiate what was broken, and possibly miss important stuff to treat.

The other variable is the strength of the signal.

A broken leg hurts worse than a paper cute because more pain nerves got activated in the accident, you brain interprets that to mean more sensation of pain. Those 'levels' of pain is your body's way of telling you how 'bad' your injury is (granted it is subjective but it works).

Question: How does Canada have access to US citizens criminal records?
Answer: Your criminal record is public information in the United States, barring circumstances like being a minor at the time or some kind of conditions on expunging it. It's not just Canada that can see it, anyone can see it if they ask.

Question: why rappers like soulja boy who are awful at rapping are still rich off of one hit wonders?
Answer: The same reason movies like Transformers are made

Basically, record companies need to hedge their bets. Now, all record companies have people in them interested in producing quality music but they still need to return consistent profits. It's very hard to find high quality acts that consistently, because generally their music takes a longer time to produce and they are harder to find but most importantly, they only appeal to a particular niche market.

Someone like Soulja Boy can make music that, although very few people actually think is good music, a lot of people can listen too. Like McDonalds, it appeals to everyone but not particularly to anyone. This makes it ideal music for large nightclubs and any other place with a large group of people with varied music tastes. 

This is why Baauer is signed to the same label as Zebra Katz and Duck Sauce to the same label as Action Bronson. Every label needs people on it who can make music that everyone finds tolerable at a party

Question: Why do i have to cough when i'm cleaning my ears?
Answer: Its because the two areas associated with the sensations are so so close together in the brain that ower-sensation can trigger the other. It will take a few seconds of cleaning before the cough is stimulated. Not everybody has this, but another common example is people sneezing when the pluck their eyebrows. The area associated with the pain sensation of hair plucking is right next to the sneezing mechanism, and so it sometimes triggers a sneeze!

Question: Colombia still produces hundreds of tons of cocaine each year, why aren't there cartels in the country like when the Cali and Medellin were big in the 80's and 90's? And if there aren't big cartels, who is moving all those drugs out of the country?
Answer: I know that the US gives Colombia a lot of money to shut down cartels before they become powerful...and they are pushed out of major cities and into the jungle. Its kind of like a win win. They get major cities back for tourism and the production of drugs is out of sight out of mind in the jungle somewhere. Also a lot of cartels moved to neighboring countries...ie Peru..

Question: What are saccades, and why do eyes need them?
Answer: A saccade is a quick, jerky, near-instant movement of the eye. The speed can't be controlled; the muscles controlling the eye move as fast as they can.

One popular suggestion for the necessity of the saccade is that the central part of the retina, called the fovea, that provides the clearest, sharpest vision, is very very small. By jerking the eye from point to point to point, the brain can build up a map of the areas the fovea's passed over and thereby get a very detailed picture of what it's seeing.

Question: What is the connection between Thai and Chinese?
Answer: Regarding the cultural closeness of China and Thailand, as [this Wikipedia article] (_URL_0_) notes,  a significant portion of Thai people are ethnic Chinese, and they are especially influential in business and politics. 

So a Thai immigrant to the U.S. could very well be a third-generation Chinese, and if that person were to start a Thai restaurant, adding Chinese to the menu would be very easy, just consult family recipes handed down from China.

I truthfully think the reason you see them together is simpler, though. Much of Thai cuisine does in fact appear similar to southern Chinese cuisine (which is the kind most familiar to Americans): stir-fried meat and vegetables with lots of seasoning and chili peppers. And the average American wouldn't know the difference, so the restaurant can just make food that's kind of Chinese, change one ingredient, and call it kind of Thai.

I used to live in Seattle, and I never saw any mixed Thai/Chinese restaurants. Seattleites do know the difference :)

Question: How does a barcode work?
Answer: You know how Morse Code is a series of short signals, long signals, and periods of silence that represent letters?

Barcodes work on the same principle, only on the visual spectrum and with numbers.  The lines you see in the barcode represent a numerical code.  When the scanner sees those lines, it can figure out the numerical code based on how wide the lines are and how often there is white space.  It then sends that code to a database somewhere, which knows what items have that code.  The database then return that items to the cashier's register.

Question: Why is 1080p advertised as "full hd" when there are much higher resolutions?
Answer: Because 1080p is what is considered high definition. 4k is considered Ultra HD. It's just a term used.

Question: How did Oasis become so popular in the'90s, and why aren't they as Iconic as Nirvana?
Answer: They had catchy, well written tunes.... for one album. Their follow up albums got worse and worse and the Gallagher brothers were notorious for not getting along with others or even each other. They even fought on stage. What they were not, however, is ground breaking. They sounded like an update of the Beatles. 

Nirvana, on the other hand, were original. They produced music unlike anything else, over multiple albums. Also, there is something about dying young that tends to make musicians iconic.

Question: How are people able to feel how wet an object is through latex or vinyl gloves?
Answer: The most immediate giveaways would be the sudden temperature change, as well as reduced air pressure within the glove (glove gets tighter since the air pockets in the glove are getting pushed out)

Question: Why do we laugh when being tickled when it's not enjoyable whatsoever?
Answer: As with most things biological, there is a tremendous amount of guess-work required to come up with a meaningful answer.

There are many theories as to why we are ticklish and why we respond the way we do to it. The most compelling to me is the theory that tickling is related to play-fighting. The young of many social animals participate in play fighting where they will attack each other without the intent of causing serious harm. The human behavior of tickling seems to map very well to this, forcing the person being attacked to respond in a way which appears to be happy, and thus not distressing to the attacker. Children generally like some amount of tickling, but this fades over time at about the same time that 'play' of this sort gives way to other interactions.

Question: Does the car A.C. Use gas or electric to run, and how does it affect gas mileage specifically?
Answer: It doesn't directly use gas *or* electric.

There's a pulley in the front of the engine. The air conditioning is turned by a belt that connects it to the pulley.

When the air conditioning is switched on, it's pretty difficult to turn the air conditioning unit. And since this unit is connected to the engine by the belt, the engine has to do the work of turning the air conditioning. It gives the engine more load.

This is similar to, for example, going uphill - another situation which puts the engine under more load. Either the engine (and car) will slow down, or you need to press the accelerator (gas pedal) more and use more gas to maintain your speed.

Question: Why we need to become unconscious in order to sleep?
Answer: There are a few animals that are capable of remaining conscious while sleeping, such as dolphins. This is a phenomenon known as [unihemispheric sleep](_URL_0_), in which one half of the brain is sleeping at a given time.

As to why humans did not evolve to be unihemispheric sleepers, it is likely that the requirements to do so would detract from our other abilities. Our brains are set up in a way that the activation of both the left and right hemispheres are required to perform most tasks. Patients who have undergone a [corpus callosotomy](_URL_1_), a surgical procedure that severs the connection between these two halfs, often experience difficulties with tasks that require synchronization of both sides of the body (ex. tying shoelaces).

So likely, even if humans could become unihemispheric sleepers, we would not be able to perform any useful tasks. If we do want to be unihemispheric sleepers while keeping all of our current functionality, we would need redundant areas of the brain, which would be a big investment.

From an evolutionary standpoint, unihemispheric sleep is most useful to animals that must be constantly on the move (ie. long migrations, swimming mammals that need to surface, etc.) and are capable of maintaining this constant physical activity. Humans have no such requirements (since we can rest safely in shelters), nor the ability to do so (since gathering the required calories would have been hard for hunter gatherers). Therefore, our brains changed to increase our cognitive abilities, rather than our sleeping abilities.

Question: How do loading bars know how far along a download is?
Answer: When you begin a download, it creates a "box" that says there is a specific amount space that the file will be contained in. As pieces in the box fill in, the box says "hey, I currently have been filled with X number of the Y required pieces."

Question: Why do bands bring have their own speakers and amplifiers if everything is just run through the arena's PA system?
Answer: Like their guitar amps and stuff?  A guitar amp does a whole lot more to influence the actual sound and tone than the PA.  A guitarist's amp is pretty integral to his whole sound, so he'll want it to be consistent, and he'll want control over it.  Then the venue will put a mic on his amp to connect it to the PA.

Question: In space, it always seems that we are shown traveling on a 2D plane. What happens if you leave Earth and go straight "Up" or "Down"?
Answer: Our planets are all mostly on the same plane, which is nicely convenient for illustration purposes. If you go any other direction, it's pretty darn empty. And it will take a while to run into the [Oort cloud](_URL_0_). Beyond that is way more empty before another solar system.

Question: how do we know how far away something is in lightyears?
Answer: Well lightyears is a unit of distance just like miles or kilometres. So if you can calculate the distance to a star you can display that distance in miles, kilometres or lightyears.

Now I'm not sure if you ask how we know what a lightyear is or how to can calculate the distance to a star.

For the first one, there is several experiment that was done starting in the 17th to estimate the speed. The first estimate was more than 20% off, but as we get better measurement technology we got a pretty good idea of the exact speed. After you have the speed in m/s you just need to multiply that number by the number of second in a year.

For the second question, how can we know the distance. There is different method. The first one is parallax. Look at one object and close you right eye. Then open the right and close the left rapidly. Do you see the object moving left and right? What happen is that you two eyes are not at the same position so they see the object at different angle. With a lot of complicated math that I couldn't do tbh, you can use the angle between the two image and the distance between your two eyes to calculate the distance between your eyes and the object. Now the longer the distance between your eyes, the more angle it will have. The longer the distance between your eyes and the object, the smaller the angle will be. So you want a good ratio between these two distance otherwise the angle will be too small to measure. Our eyes are way too close to measure a star. But the earth move a LOT during the year. So you can look at a start at one point during the year and then look at it again 6 months later and then you gonna be able to measure the angle and the distance between to the star. Now, you can guess that if you keep looking at star further and further away the angle will keep getting smaller and some star are so far away than we can't longer use that method. There is other method at this point, but parallax is the one use for most star that are relatively close to us.

Question: Why is the ocean water so clear in places like the Caribbean but not at US beaches?
Answer: Tropical waters like those in the Caribbean are warm, clear, and completely devoid of nutrients. This is why life clusters around reefs, a lot of creatures eat the plankton and algae that grows on the coral, they provide food for the area

The waters up north are cold, dark, dirty, and full of nutrients! The darkness is partially from dirt/mud but a large part is all the algae, plankton, and krill. These nutrient rich waters support a wide variety of animals and many animals will go to these dark waters to feed and fatten up during the summer and then return to the warm clear waters to give birth and raise their young

Question: What makes someone a "light sleeper" vs a "heavy sleeper" and are there ways to change it around?
Answer: It's just a matter of habit. This is why you're supposed to have plenty of loud noises (vacuum, TV, conversations, etc) while your baby is sleeping, so it gets used to those noises and you don't have to worry about waking it. These habits are started as a baby by your parents, and they are extremely difficult - but not impossible - to change, once you're older. 

To go from heavy sleeper to light sleeper, you must sleep in pristine, silent locations for probably several months to get your subconscious mind to get used to the silence. 

To go from light to heavy, sleep with a quiet, but random sound playing, first, such as a TV on very low volume. Over the course of weeks, slowly increase the volume and graduate from calming things like music up to more chaotic things like conversation and eventually something with sudden noises, like an action movie. Eventually, your subconscious mind will learn that random noises are going to happen throughout the night, and it will just ignore them.

Question: Why have newspaper comics gotten so abysmal these days?
Answer: Several factors are at play.

First, you're older, so you've developed a taste. You might recall loving Garfield as a kid, but now you read recent strips and it's dull and bland. But if you went back and read strips that were published when you were a child, you would find them equally dull.

Second, the authors change over time. They might come to view their comics as a metaphorical prison for their imagination. They might develop some sort of mental deterioration, as with Terry Pratchett.

Finally, external conditions might change that reduce their ability to do their work, as with Tom Lehrer (who, when he produced music, wanted to satirize politicians, but he stopped because today he instead wants to punch them).

Question: How is it that I get so car sick when I try to read or write in the car when I'm otherwise fine?
Answer: Reading and writing requires intense visual focus.  Your eyes home in on the paper, and the visual part of your brain kind of stops paying attention to anything in your peripheral vision.

However, if you're in a car, your inner ears are telling your brain "hey, I'm moving all over the place".  But your eyes are telling your brain "nothing's moving, you're just reading a book".  Your brain, receiving these two conflicting pieces of information, decides that it has been poisoned and makes you headachey/nauseous so you can vomit the poison back up.

True Story.

Question: Why is cheese sometimes crunchy/gritty? And what causes that texture?
Answer: The crunchiness is caused by crystals of various substances that form as the cheese dries.  They start out dissolved in water in the cheese, but as the water evaporates, they start to crystallize.  Usually, the crystals are made of calcium lactate.  But sometimes, for some cheeses, there are crystals of amino acids like tyrosine, leucine, or isoleucine. 

Fun fact: tyrosine is named after cheese.  *Tyros* is Greek for cheese. Tyrosine was first discovered in the protein casein, found in cheese, by Justus von Liebig.

Question: If a MLB pitcher were to hit a player in the head, and that player have life suffering injuries, would the pitcher be in trouble?
Answer: Unless it was intentional, no. All the players signed legal waivers when they sign their contracts.

Question: Guantanamo Bay
Answer: It's a US Military base slash terrorist prison in Cuba. We jail terrorists there because they are not subject to US laws and do not have the right to a lawyer, phone call, speedy trial, know charges against etc etc. 

Someone once told me another reason we keep terrorists off US soil is because the terrorists would become naturalized US citizens after a certain period of time. Not sure if that is true.

Question: If a joint cracking is a result of gases in the joint popping, how can I crack the same joint multiple times?
Answer: imagine you have a balloon and cracking a joint is like opening the balloons mouth for 1 second. If you have more fluid in your joints than one moment of release from a single crack, more will come out on subsequent ones. you may notice how they get progressively less powerful as the crack count continuously goes up

Question: Why or how do fires make sound? More specifically 'roar' ?
Answer: Hot air rises, and the fire heats the surrounding air unevenly, causing increased turbulent air flow around the fire that we can hear as sound.

Question: The phases of the moon and their rise and set times.
Answer: The moon orbits and rotates around the earth in the same way as the earth orbits and rotates around the sun. Because the moon orbits the earth at a different rate that the earth rotates it causes the moon to rise and set at different times of the day

The phases of the moon are also due to its orbit. The part of the moon that you see is being illuminated by the sun. As the moon orbits earth, the side that is facing the earth stays the same( because the moon rotates at just the right speed to counteract its orbit so we only see one side of the moon) but the side facing the sun changes and completes one full cycle approximately every month.

Question: Is there any Virus which infects Apple products?Why is there such a big problem with windows and hardly any problem with the mac when it comes to bugs?
Answer: Yes, there has been malware for Apple products including OSX. Windows gets targeted more because it has a far larger market share. I haven't had significantly more bugs on a Windows device than I have on OSX. I haven't seen a BSoD since XP was the latest Windows OS, but I did see a kernel panic on OSX (So basically the equivalent) just a few months ago.

Question: Do birds stop for rests after flying for long periods of time?
Answer: It depends on the bird. Most birds do stop to rest, but birds like swifts, terns, and albatrosses can stay in the air for weeks or months at a time, usually by gliding on air currents. One benefit is that lets them conserve energy.

Question: Stress is implicated in a great number of health problems today, things must of been pretty stressful for our early ancestors, why are our bodies still not able to deal with stress?
Answer: There's a big difference between acute stress and chronic stress. Life was not as stressful as you have been led to believe. Most anthropologists estimate that hunter-gatherers worked a lot less and had more leisure time than modern humans. The stress response is adaptive for dealing with short term threats in the moment, like a fight or a predator. It's not very helpful for "threats" that never go away, like debt.

Question: Why auto makers dropped the frameless doors?
Answer: Because they really didn't work too well. It was too hard to build a seal between the car frame and the glass, that worked well when closing the door, while allowing the window to slide up and down. Because you couldn't hold the glass in a channel, the window gets pulled away from the seal at high speed, unless you design it to push tightly against the seal, which makes the door hard to close and makes the window-winder mechanism stiff.

The door-window seal has to do different things to the door-car seal. Trying to make one seal do both meant that both things were done poorly.

Question: is it true that if one sits too close to a television it will affect your vision after a certain amount time?
Answer: It MAY cause eye strain which could be a temporary annoyance, or cause a headache. But no long term damage can/will come of it. Simply put, your parents said that because if you were to close to the TV, it makes it harder for others to see.

Question: Australia is a relatively new country which was settled by the British so...where the bloody hell does the accent come from?
Answer: It doesn't take long for an accent to change! 

*We* even have different accents from our own parents. Or maybe you can tell more easily from your grandparents. My grandparents sound much more 'plum' than I do.

The children of the first fleet would have had a different sound from their parents, who were a unique mix of different British accents. Probably the children heard the adults, who came from different areas, and subconsciously chose bits and pieces from different adults, creating the first Australian accent.

Sometimes Australian TV replays news segments from the 1930's, 40's, 50's, 60's and 70's - each generation sounds slightly different. Recall "Skippy" in black and white, or an old "Tip Top" commercial, or the Prime Ministers in the first half of the 20th century - the further back you go, the more the accent sounds ...like the Queen - or  like an old fashioned Scot or Irishman.

Question: Why do batteries, especially cellphone, die quicker the lower the charge?
Answer: Computer technician here who regularly troubleshoots smartphone battery issues: As a general rule they actually don't. Modern lithium ion/lithium polymer batteries have small onboard processors that regulate and monitor their performance. It monitors many things but most notably it tracks how many charge cycles the battery has had and how many milliamp hours (mAh) are available for use. Every task a device performs takes a very specific amount of power and these measurements aren't arbitrary either, they're very accurate. Think of the battery as a reservoir of water with a tap attached. The more open the tap the faster it drains. The likelihood is that because you are paying more attention at crunch time you are tricking yourself into believing it is going down faster when really it's not, or, the very act of observing is draining the battery. A common statement I hear is "I can actually watch the percentage go down" and, yes, you can. Screen usage is one of the biggest drains on the battery, second probably only to heavy video processing and GPS (ALWAYS use a charger if you plan on using as a satnav). In my experience; people who don't wear a timepiece use 15-20% battery just checking the time regularly.

The other reason is that your battery is either faulty or consumed. A battery can only be charged so many times before its performance is significantly lost and is measured in Full Charge Cycles. Every total 100% equals one cycle, so 20% a day for five days equals one cycle. Most modern batteries get about 500-1000 cycles before they are considered consumed, where they go below 80% capacity of what they were when they were new. At this point the battery will have difficulty measuring exactly how much power is left and may behave erratically, shutting down at high percentages, draining faster or just shutting off spontaneously for no reason. At this point you should have your battery replaced by an authorised technician. And I don't say this lightly or because it keeps me in the job. Batteries are seriously bloody dangerous when manufactured cheaply or fitted incorrectly and most modern smartphones have "naked" battery packs, soft cells that are protected only by the phone casing itself and not in an independent casing. Incorrect handling can cause fire and really nasty fumes so do not attempt it yourself. 

TL;DR It doesn't, you're just tricking yourself or there's something wrong with your battery

Question: Why do low fuel prices have a negative long term effect?
Answer: They don't.

..although they can have. One of the things you need to remember with economics, is that very few things "do X". Economies as a system are too complicated for such easy conclusions.

In this case however: The rise of fuel prices tends to drive inflation (when fuel becomes more expensive, transporting goods becomes more expensive, so the price of goods rise, and something priced at $1 today could cost $1.1 tomorrow, ie. the money in your hand is worth less as time passes. When fuel prices drop, inflation tends to drop.

However when inflation becomes negative (= deflation), a good that costs $1 today could cost $0.9 tomorrow; so suddenly the money you already have starts increasing in value, which is an incentive for you to hold on to it. The longer you keep it, the more valuable it becomes.

As such consumption of goods and investment in future technologies drops off.

Since our (western, modernized) economies depend on private consumption  &  industries investing into research  &  development, lower fuel prices could lead to a drop in consumption.

The counterargument is that lower fuel prices (and thus lower cost of goods) would lead to more consumption, because everything is cheaper  &  people have more money left over.

Which of those two is more true than the other at any given moment depends on dozens if not hundred of other factors (and that usually leads to people from opposing political parties claiming their argument is true).

The middle line is that you'd want low inflation (so money doesn't devalue too quickly), while avoiding deflation; but most of all keeping everything more or less stable. No one likes disrupting effects in their macroeconomy, since there are no cookie-cutter solutions.

Question: What are/were qualudes? What were they originally intended for? What did the effect feel like? How they used?
Answer: Well, since they are impossible to find these days, no harm in discussing what they were about.

They were originally a sleep aid, prescribed to those who can't fall asleep or sleep through the night (Insomnia). People pretty quickly found out that if you resist the urge to sleep, you were hit with a pretty powerful high. 

The drug itself is a depressant (like alcohol) and a muscle relaxer (like a soma or valium). As you might guess, the effect is pretty much a combination of the two (Don't combine alcohol and muscle relaxers! It's VERY DANGEROUS and can result in death easily!). 

You're partially numb ("floaty"), have poor coordination/motor control/reactions. You feel dizzy, are more easily sexually aroused, and may have slurred speech-quite like alcohol. When too much is taken, the effects are like modern barbituates-delirium, convulsions, vomiting, and death through cardiac or respiratory arrest (you stop breathing, or your heart stops beating).

They were used in the same context as alcohol or other barbituates. Some used it for fun, and would go out socially or dance (just like many people dance and drink alcohol). Others would use it for relaxation or "tuning out", much like modern barbituates.

At this point, they're gone. Production officially stopped decades ago after controversy, and even underground production essentially stopped many years ago after popularity dropped.

Question: Why can we be woken up by others snoring but not our own?
Answer: You can be woken up (easily) if your sleep is not deep. You only snores when your sleep is deep.

Question: How can birds sit on electricity cables and not be electrocuted?
Answer: Electricity will always seek to flow through the path of least resistance. If it can flow at all, it will go through the conductor that is lowest in resistance to the flow.

When a bird perches on an electrical wire, there's no change in the bird's electrical status- it offers no easier path for electricity to flow, because it's already flowing through the wire, which is *far* lower in resistance than a bird is.

If a large bird or other animal were to touch two wires or one wire and the ground (or a conductor that connects to the ground) at the same time, then it would create a path between two different electrical states (called *potential*), and then electricity would flow between those two wires through the animal. Probably very briefly, as the animal would die or burn up almost immediately.

Editing to add: Almost no electrical cables on power poles are insulated because it costs more, the insulation can crack and wear away, and it serves no purpose other than to increase expense and weight. Only in some specific circumstances are overhead power lines insulated, and it's not common.

Question: How do they make old 70s and 80s movies in high definition when it didn't exist back then?
Answer: Film is a very high quality medium capable of storing images very high resolutions. The master prints of those films are still around and are used to create HD copies.

Back then, scans of the films were taken at relatively low resolutions because VHS tapes were the standard medium for distribution. VHS tapes are low quality and the TVs people would view them on were low quality.

Nowadays, much higher quality mediums are available for redistribution, so the films are being rescanned at more appropriate resolutions.

Question: How healthy are probiotics for you? Do they help with weight loss?
Answer: Probiotic refers to food that contains "healthy" or "beneficial" bacteria. Our intestines are loaded with bacteria that help us digest food. Probiotics contain some of those bacteria. They are generally recommended for people who are on long term antibiotic therapy, among other things, as those people will have a lower population of good bacteria in their gut.

So no, probiotics have very little if any effect on weight.

Question: How Gödel Numbering works
Answer: There is a difference between the "logical leap" in terms of what it does in general and exactly what Gödel was doing. I will give you an ELI5 idea in general.

Any claim that can be proved in math can be answered by writing out a proof of that claim. This proof is nothing more than a finite collection of symbols taken from a character set (including spaces). If you assign a number to each character you can assign a unique number to each proof and mathematical claim. (Gödel involved numbering types logical statements and not types of characters, and those details are important in his proof, but the idea is coming up with a unique numbering)

For going backwards you take any number and decode it back into the characters from the character set and you get a claim and its proof. Well, mostly you get gibberish in this case, but no matter, every valid proof of every claim does come from unique numbers, that means all mathematical claims and valid proofs can be numbered.

The Gödel argument is to show there are mathematical claims which are true but for which there is no valid proof. Essentially the claim "there is no valid proof of this claim"... is a true statement, but there is no valid proof of it.

Question: What is syndication on TV?
Answer: ["Syndication" is essentially a market for programs to be sold to TV stations, to fill out their schedule](_URL_0_).  For the most part, at least for broadcast TV, 'primetime' and morning news shows are the only programming produced exclusively by a network for broadcast on their own channel.  Everything else is syndicated programming purchased by the local affiliate or regional association to fill timeslots.

So, shows like Jeopardy!, Xena Warrior Princess, and a lot of shows that were cancelled after the first season but continued to make episodes (e.g. Baywatch) are straight-up syndicated; they are produced independently, and channels buy the rights to broadcast the shows.  There's no direct relation to the channels, so in one city it might be shown on the Fox channel, in another on CW, in another on the weird local-access channel that usually just broadcasts church services, etc.

Now, when a popular first-run non-syndicated program gets enough seasons under its belt, they take the older episodes, package them up, and sell them on the same syndication market as Xena Warrior Princess.  The TV stations that need to fill out their schedule now have the opportunity to buy older episodes of popular shows to broadcast as well, because it comes with a pre-built audience -- they know people like watching *Everybody Loves Raymond*, but the indie detective police procedural might need some time to find an audience.   Also, the original producers of the channel have an extra money-making outlet for new episodes, especially since a station already paying for seasons 1 through 3 are definitely going to buy season 4 when it comes available for rebroadcast.  This is also why a lot of actor's contracts get up for renewal about the time syndication becomes available: more seasons means more revenue, and is thus a negotiating factor.

Question: Why do apps on Google Play need me to give them access to details which are seemingly private and unrelated to the app I'm downloading?
Answer: It depends on the app; either it:

1. Is spamming malware (there is no initial vetting done on apps put onto the Google Play store; Google only takes apps down if they're reported).

2. Is sneakily but legitimately selling your information to advertisers.

3. Has features you aren't aware that utilise those features for a real and positive feature.

Question: how do they determine traffic light timing at intersections?
Answer: There are 3 traffic control systems that I'm personally aware of. None of these terms should be considered technical or correct, I'm just a geek interested in cars who wandered one night into the part of the internet where they talk about traffic lights. 

Static lights - no sensors, just timed according to existing patterns. This is the most common one out there, and most seem to be programmed based on traffic and time of day. No matter how well a static / timed light may be programmed (even compensating for time of day or day of week) traffic is inherently unpredictable and changing patterns (even over the course of months or years) will cause the lights the eventually not handle traffic patterns accordingly. These lights are most often criticized for bad timing / impeding traffic. 

Old coil-in-the-pavement sensors (there are a few different styles). These are the ones where you drive over a sensor which detects the car and has the light (eventually) change to let you through. One reason it takes so long is that it was programmed with a delay to prevent the light from turning green for a car that has long since turned right on red. Also, if you ever hear about motorcycles not being able to trip a sensor, this is the kind of intersection that they're having a problem with. Most often paired with a button for pedestrians to hit in order to get the "walk" signal. 

ITS (Intelligent Traffic Systems) - probably the one technical term that I know. These are intersections with cameras pointing each direction. The cameras sense cars coming and send a signal to the lights to change. It allows the lights to best serve the traffic in a dynamic way, ie adjust to unpredictable patterns in the traffic.

Question: What exactly is the Dial-up sound?
Answer: They're doing a few things:

* Figuring out which protocols each modem is capable of, and selecting the best one that they both can handle.

* Sending some commands to the telephone network that switch it to a mode more useful for modems than talking.

* Measuring the qualities of the telephone connection.

* Figuring out what the highest speed they can use is.

_URL_0_

Question: When a relative gets into an accident, how do emergency services notify you?
Answer: Depending on the circumstances, there are a number of ways next of kin are notified of an accident:

- if the accident is fatal, all efforts are made by the police to locate the next of kin and notify them in person. This allows for support and victim services to be made immediately available. This also ensures that the person being notified is safe and doesn't do anything to hurt themselves out of grief.

- if the next of kin lives in another city/state/country then the local police agency is contacted and asked to assist in making the notification.

- if the accident is not fatal than typically social workers at the hospital will contact the next of kin by phone, advise them of the accident, and ask them to come to the hospital. Sometimes the police will assist with this type of notification if needed.

Source: I've done it many times and it sucks.

Question: What is going on in Syria right now regarding the war of government vs. rebels, etc. Also, what will happen now that Syria has agreed to surrender their chemical weapons?
Answer: Please read the sidebar and [the rules](_URL_0_) before participating in /r/explainlikeimfive.

 > 9\. **You must search before submitting.** All posts on ELI5 are archived, so you should search before making a submission. Remember to search using *keywords,* don't just paste your title into the search bar. If your search results don't yield an adequate explanation, mentioning it in the body of your post is a good idea.

I have removed your submission because it is very similar to one of the most commonly-asked questions, or something that was asked very recently. Please don't be discouraged from making submissions in the future that are more in line with the mission and rules of this subreddit :)

Question: - Totalitarianism and politics
Answer: I dont exactly agree with Schmaltzed. 

Totalitarianism is political system, where the government tries to control every aspect of public but ALSO private life.

In contrast a government that just controls the economy, military, art, education, science is not perse a totalitarian government. 

The greatest example is Soviet Union. It was all about building up a Nation where everyone would have equal rights and chances for a stable future. The State literally built schools, paid for your education, found a job for you, paid your pension. You never really had to worry about your future, state was promising you that stability. While it sounds great to live that , one must realize that in case you were unhappy with how things were, you had no liberty or chances to change it.

A things about Totalitarian Government ( from top of my head):
1. uses media to justify and promote itself.
2. limits freedom of speech ( as a back up to 1.)
3. strives to control every aspect of your life.
4. not perse a dictatorship
5. sells ideology, brainwashes citizens.
6. low on corruption (officials also brainwashed)
....
edit: spelling

Question: Why is affirmative action still around?
Answer: The easiest way i can explain it is affirmative action is a set of guidelines and goals  to reduce and reverse historical trends of minority groups being deprived of social and economic opportunities not available to them solely because of their background.

I saw guidelines and goals because actual quotas have been deemed unconstitutional for quite a while now, and don't actually exist. And government assistance is not ever based on affirmative action, at all. Its based on economic status, and you will find no law or statute that says otherwise, because that's illegal.

The reason all this is still around is because its still necessary. The problems still exist. The reason so many people think there's not an issue is because they are fundamentally confused about what affirmative action actually is.

Normally, this is because they never bothered to look into it and just kinda believed what other people told them, without ever verifying it.

Question: Why can English speakers efficiently communicate with most other English speakers (regardless of dialect) but a lot of Mandarin speakers can't communicate likewise between the various dialects of Mandarin nearly as efficiently?
Answer: Because there is no clear distinction between 'language' and 'dialect'.

An important aspect of differentiating between a dialect and a language is mutual intelligibility. If two people who speak the different dialects cannot understand each other, then they speak different languages. 

However, in the real world languages don't exist in isolation. They are connected to culture, history and religion, and and all these aspects are also important in whether a dialect gets to be called its own language. For example, speakers of Hindi and Urdu can easily communicate with each other. In fact the Hindi pop culture produced in India is consumed by Urdu speakers in Pakistan and vice versa. However, because of historical and religious reasons, the speakers of Hindi and Urdu like to consider them different languages. The reverse is true for Arabic. An arabic speaker from Western Africa and one from Saudia Arabia would have difficulty understanding each other. But because of cultural and religious reasons, both would claim they speak Arabic.

So why are different dialects of Chinese not mutually intelligible. Because while they are considered the same language due to historical and cultural reasons, they are as varied as the Romance languages in Europe. Wikipedia states:

 >  The varieties of Chinese are usually described by native speakers as dialects of a single Chinese language, but linguists note that they are as diverse as a language family. The internal diversity of Chinese has been likened to that of the Romance languages, but may be even more varied

Question: Why do people feel a dull ache in their forehead when an object (like a pen or finger) is brought very near to, but without touching, the point between their eyebrows?
Answer: I get the same sensation when something comes close to the area between my eyebrows. It has nothing to do with eye movement or mystisism. I cannot explain why but i can feel a slight pressure when an object is close. I have wondered about this myself.

Question: Why do my eyes tear up when I pull a hair out of my nose?
Answer: Because it freaking hurts! As an aside, I love doing that all day. I guess I should have used a throwaway for that, but who cares? :)

Question: Why are weather forecasts still so inaccurate?
Answer: You remember the times they're wrong and rarely remember the times they're right. 

Also if an app is telling you it's sunny and clear when it's raining perhaps the location services on your phone aren't functioning properly.

Question: Since I'm not a Nielsen family, does pirating a show basically have the same effect as watching it on live TV?
Answer: With respect to TV ratings, if you're not participating in any special Nielsen Families (or related) program, then pirating would be effectively the same as watching the TV program live via antenna or via a passive cable/satellite tuner (e.g. using the QAM tuner built into your TV). 

There are, however, cable/satellite TV set-top boxes that can technically report back to the television service provider what channels you are watching. Whether your television service provider actually collects this information and/or shares it with other parties (e.g. Nielsen) for measuring ratings, that's a whole different story (one I don't actually have the answer to)... 

But certainly in terms of passive tuners (which basically just listen into one-way over-the-air / cable broadcasts), then there is no way they are collecting information about your viewership of the program and thus pirating would not affect the ratings.

Question: How can gas stations charge 9/10 of a penny, when no such denomination exists?
Answer: Since there is no such denomination, they "do it" by rounding to the nearest penny. When you multiply any amount of gas by any price, you always get something that has to be rounded off.

It's their way of turning 9 cents into a dime, 99 cents into a dollar. That also gets them a tiny bit more money than if they didn't use that 9/10 of a penny in the price.

I run into people all the time who think $2.599 is two dollars and fifty-nine cents. The ruse works.

Question: Why do spicy foods affect some people more than others?
Answer: From personal experience, it's how used to spicy food you are.

The experience I've had involves home made curry; one my dad made that he considered to not be spicy at all, I agreed, was way too hot for friends I shared it with.

I imagine it's tolerance. The more spice you eat, the more you body is used to the level.

Question: Why does society view the exposure of the female chest so differently from that of a man's? Why do women have to cover and men don't?
Answer: In New York State wherever a man can legally be topless, so can a woman.

Question: In theory, how do all of the US government armed forces (Police, FBI, DEA, etc) rank and compare to each other?
Answer: They all have different responsibilities.   The Federal level is above the State.  And the State level is above the Local.  State level in most states acts as a sheriffs department which is just like your local police, but across the entire state and used often for rural areas that do not have a local police force.

In the case of a terrorist attack, the FBI, the CIA, the NSA, and Homeland Security would all work on the locating the perpetrators, figuring out how they did it, and if there is any other imminent threats.

The CIA would most likely work on gathering intelligence about the chain of command across the world, taking them to wherever the idea of the attack developed.  The NSA would start gathering intelligence domestically through wiretaps.  The FBI would do more of the foot work in investigating the actual scene and probably do some intelligence gathering of their own.  Homeland Security would start investigating who the people were by checking immigration records and other international criminal activities associated with the event.  Homeland Security also controls the TSA at the airport, so they would be responsible for figuring out how the terrorists were able to avoid any detection at the airport when first coming to the US and if they were on any warning lists, like the do not fly list.  

For example, if a murder happened in a city that has a local police force they will be the first to the scene.  If the crime involves a larger matter, like a series of murders that goes across state boundaries, then the FBI would take over.  The more complex and spread out the crime the more likely the local police would hand off the case to the FBI.  The local police usually remains to provide local assistance and lower level investigation (door to door questions, local probes, etc).  

**Intelligence -**  There are 16 intelligence elements in the United States that are supposed to work alone and together.  The over-arching umbrella over these 16 elements is led by the Director of National Intelligence.

NSA and CIA.  The NSA is under the Department of Defense.  The CIA is an independent agency, but they are all suppose to report to the President with daily briefings and to work together, especially after 9/11.


**Department of Justice -**

Federal Investigations:  FBI

Drugs:  DEA

US Marshalls: More or less the police for the Courts. They handle warrants, transporting prisoners, track fugitives

**Homeland Security -**  Responsible for protecting the citizenry from a terrorist attack before it happens

Secret Service:  Protects the current and past president's and their families, as well as foreign dignitaries.  They are also responsible for preventing the counterfeiting of US currency and US treasury bonds notes.


Many others:  TSA, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), Citizenship and Immigration Services, Customs and Border Protection.

Edit:  Changed state level police per the comments below.

Question: Why do homegrown plants need constant attention such as water or they will die, while wild plants are left alone and flourish?
Answer: Wild plants die all the time.  The ones you see are the few that lived - natural selection.  They are outdoor so they get water from rainfall.

Indoor plants are often from another region.  They are constantly at "room temperature", something that no plant is naturally accustomed to, so we often get plants from climates that have milder warm weather or plants that are especially hardy.  They must be watered because, being indoors, they get no water from nature.

In the wild, if the plant dies who cares, there are likely others nearby that live on.  In a house, you have a single plant and want to make sure it stays alive.

Also, plenty of houseplants require water and care like once a week.  That is not "constant attention" by any stretch of the imagination.

Question: Why are Hazmat suits so big and bulky? How come they can't make them smaller and slimmer?
Answer: They are both positive pressure and most contain a SCUBA apparatus. This alone results in a system that isn't small. Additionally, the material the suit is  made from should be chemical and puncture resistant, this adds thickness. Additional layers may be worn underneath depending on the situation encountered.

Question: Why are actors/directors/crews not employees of major studios (or are they)?
Answer: Movie studios used to operate this way many decades ago.  It was referred to as the star system.  The decline of this method of operating came about largely because studios became notorious for exploiting actors and heavily restricting or controlling their careers.  The system also tended to favour the development of a star's personal image, rather than focus on the quality of the acting.  People in the entertainment industry still enter into contracts for all sorts of projects, however the goal of most artists is generally to retain creative control over their careers and being signed to lengthy contracts with studios obviously limits that.

Question: why is it easier to balance on a bicycle when moving than when standing still?
Answer: I actually did a little research project on this a few years ago.

There are two main sources of tilting: the moment of force from gravity, and the moment of force from the centripetal force.
What you have learned subconciously is how to use your steering weel as input to use the centripetal force to balance out what the gravitational force does. (to show you how subconcious this motor skill actually is, try swapping your hands so your arms are crossed. Don't do this on a hard surface because you're going to fall)

Additionally, there are some facets that make it easier for you. Geometry can be optimised so the bike has some self steering properties [theres a lot that can be said about this and I'm not going into it all]. When it starts tilting due to gravity the steering wheel will automatically turn to generate a centripetally induced tilt. Note that this results in an oscillation and this can be clearly seen when you push a bike without a rider, it will go in a straight line initially, then start oscillation with an ever increasing amplitude and eventually crash. Also, gyroscopic effects of the wheels increase stability (for motorbike riders: compare a real motorcycle passing a truck vs a motoscooter passing a truck).

Common misconceptions are that you balance by leaning while driving, or pushing on the footpegs/pedals or steering wheel.

Also interesting to note its very counter-intuitive. To go left you actually steer right first. For instance, R/C motorcycles (yes its a thing) have a servo that pulls/pushes (with a spring) on the steerig wheel but the servo controls are reversed: steering to the left on the controller will put pressure on the wheel to steer to the right.

To finally answer your question: without forward speed you cannot create the centripetal force.

[edit]: Sorry, I got a bit carried away and made it too technical, I don't frequent ELI5 I just saw a subject I know a lot about and wanted to help... /u/brierrat did a better job perhaps.

Question: Why do deeply religious people badmouth other religions?
Answer: From their perspective, other religions *are* evil.

If you believe your immortal soul goes to heaven you believe the right stuff, and goes to hell if you believe the wrong stuff, other religions are Satan's trick to try to lead you into damnation.  To you, they are literally the worst thing in the world.

Question: When you download a newly aired episode of a show, where/who does that file come from?
Answer: Someone runs their cable box's output into a computer which captures the video stream and saves it as a video file. That is then uploaded. The capture and creation of video files isn't unique to media companies you know.

Question: Why did society's view of 'The Future' change from being classically futuristic to being post-apocalyptic?
Answer: It's easy to underestimate the amount of knowledge and scientific advancement that have taken place in the last fifty years. In the movies, scientific achievements solve problems; in the real world, they often highlight them.

We got more and more information on the problems with the environment, with the political system, with poverty and class inequality, corporate greed, and all aspects of our society. And the media perpetuated the shocking and fearful in order to sell their services. We arrived at the future and saw ourselves still stuck with the same problems we've always had, the same problems we will probably always have. So it's easy to turn to cynicism and extrapolate that we're hopeless and will eventually self-destruct in one way or another.

I think of the situation somewhat differently...like what happens when someone hurts themselves badly in public. They're bleeding badly and everyone is watching, but because nobody is doing anything, nobody does anything. Until someone breaks ranks, takes off their shirt and starts applying pressure to the wound. I believe individual effort will push us towards a better future, but it's not something that's going to happen on its own.

Anyway, TLDR; he that increaseth knowledge, increaseth sorrow.

**Edit:** Sorry for making the "problems with society" overwhelmingly liberal. But substitute in whatever you're concerned about and I think the point still holds. Also, keep scrolling down for a lot more interesting responses and other answers which point to more concrete events in history.

**Edit 2:** Thanks generous individual for the gold. Go team Reddit! Keep asking questions and having conversations.

Question: Why are the directions "left" and "right" associated with liberal and conservative political philosophies?
Answer: It comes from the French Revolution when people loyal to religion and the king would gather to the right of the president of the National Assembly while supporters of the revolution would gather on the left. The right thus became associated with traditionalism and conservatism while the left with equality and revolution.

Question: why is there a feeling of total disgust for men after they finish masturbating...and what causes it
Answer: Your mind pretty much goes from a high state of pleasure to a state of reason in a matter of seconds...

Question: police paperwork
Answer: Note: I am not a law enforcement officer, but I have gone through police academy and I personally know many officers. Each jurisdiction will be different and contain different protocols about who writes the report and what they write and what papers they use, so this is not a definite answer for everywhere.

-----

 > How is it that other cops can be given paperwork from other cops to do

Usually they can't unless the other officer was at the scene. There may be provisions that state otherwise, but I highly doubt it.

 > what kind of information do they need to write up

EVERYTHING. Literally, the reports need to be very detailed and include everything that could even be remotely important to the scene. Names, birthdates, SSNs, addresses of everybody involved. Time they received the call, time arrived at scene, place of the scene, who reported there, what complainant claimed happened, any evidence to back it up, what suspected perpetrator claimed, and so on and so forth.

I know an officer (Sheriff's Deputy in Ohio) that habitually reports what uniform they are wearing at the time.

 > are there different types of paperwork

Yes. Most places have a basic officer's report used for the narrative on most calls. Then there are specific reports for accidents that include drawings to show damage on the vehicle(s) and room to sketch the scene of the wreck. There are other types of reports, but I don't know them offhand.

 >  does paperwork really take hours to complete?

It can. If something big happens or there were many incidents over the shift, it can take a long time to write everything up.

Question: Differences between IVR, MMP and the American voting system.
Answer: America has FPTP also. Basically, whoever gets the most votes wins. In some cases they require a majority. Then they take the top two and have a runoff.

The problem with this is as follows. Let's say we have three candidates, Alice, Bob, and Charlie. 60% of people like Alice or Bob, but hate Charlie. The other 40% like Charlie but hate Alice and Bob. Voting day comes, and Alice gets 25%, Bob gets 35%, Charlie gets 40% and wins. Now 60% of people are mad.

IRV means you would rank your options instead and require a majority. In the example above, Since Alice had the fewest votes, she drops out, and people who voted for Alice have their second choice get their vote. Now the votes are 60% Bob and 40% Charlie. The majority of people are happy with this.

MMP I am not super familiar with, but this is how I understand it. Sometimes, It's more important what party someone is a member of than who they are. Say, all the blues always vote the same way, and all the reds vote the same way. You have a district that is 55% blues and 45% reds, and they are electing 10 representatives. With MMP, you vote for the party, and there are 6 blues elected and 4 reds. Without it, one popular blue could get 55% of the votes, but the 45% reds vote 5% each for 9 red candidates. Then we've elected 1 blue and 9 reds from a district that is 60% blue. You can see why the blues don't want this.

Question: How do nations determine their currency value?
Answer: Most currencies are not regulated in the way you say, countries do not set the values of their currency in international trade themselves. This was not always the case (see "gold standard"), but now, most currencies are floated on an exchange, the Foreign Exchange Market, where the value of each currency is determined by market demand.

Question: How are urls created, and also how are they made so they dont match another url?
Answer: each url (not including the sub directory) links to exactly one ip address (as determined by your dns server, different people using different dns, may be directed to different ips).  this ip address determines the webserver which will serve the webpage.  

[server].[domain].[top level domain]/(optional)[sub directory]

default server is usually www.  although the domain host can choose to have others for specific pages within the same domain such as, _URL_2_, _URL_0_, _URL_1_, etc etc.  

domain is domain, such as reddit, google, microsoft, etc.

top level domain.  .com = commercial site, org means non profit, net means network, but don't have to follow these guidelines.  some specalized ones such as .edu .gov .cn .ru etc are reserved for educational entities, us government, china, russia, etc.  

sub directories are just directories inside the webserver.  most webpages front page are served on the root directory

Question: Why do some people feel more comfortable in the city, while others are more at home in the country?
Answer: preference.... I am not aware of any specific cause.

The human brain rebels against monotony and sameness so that might have something to do with it.

Question: What is the difference between a Thesis/dissertation and a journal article?
Answer: Thesis/Dissertation is a compilation of a scientific study or studies conducted by a Masters or PhD student. In order to complete their degree these students must follow the thesis guidelines set up by their department. A thesis is usually long, ~100 pages or more. A masters thesis in the USA/Canada takes 2-3 years. A PhD takes about 4-5 years. Some programs require additional university courses to be taken in order to complete the degree, some do not. A PhD student is supposed to make a novel contribution to their field. In a STEM field a student will ask a question based on an observation, and then design an experiment to test that hypothesis. This is done under the supervision of a professor who guides the student through their studies making sure that their question meets a number of required criteria by both the department, the university, and good science. A student might ask a broad based question or very a fined tuned one, this depends on their field of study and their supervisors goals. Some supervisors are very involved in their students work, others are not. Some require students to conduct experiments within the exact field that the supervisor is studying, others don't mind if you take a broader approach and branch out into other relevant areas of study. 

A journal article like a mini thesis, same steps (observation, hypothesis, testing, results, conclusion) - except anyone can publish a journal article. An undergraduate student all the way to a tenured professor. A journal article might be anywhere between a couple of pages long to about 30. They are not usually longer than this but it depends on the journal one is trying to publish in. A journal article is submitted to a journal with a relevant field. It is given to an editor and a couple of reviewers - these reviewer are typically individuals who have earned their Ph.D within that field. They review the article and make suggestions for how to improve it (either the content, the methods, the analysis, or the conclusions). If the journal likes the article they will publish it. After this peer-review process anyone can access the findings providing they have access to the journal itself. This process can take months to years depending on the turn-over rate of the journal itself.

For example, my friend got their masters in primatology. He applied to graduate school, was accepted, and began to research a question that was relevant to his supervisors field of study (vocalizations in primates). He designed an observational experiment on a group of wild primates (that his supervisor worked with), and defended this design in front of a committee. It was a approve and so he was given the ok to travel to a tropical country and conduct his observational experiment on this group of wild primates. Eight months later and he had finished collecting his data. He returned home, analyzed his data using fancy statistics and then compiled his findings into a thesis. His thesis consisted of an introduction to the topic, his hypotheses, methods, results, and then conclusions. He defended his work in front of his committee again and passed. How he has his Masters degree but is working towards publishing his findings. In order to do so, he is turning his 100+ page thesis into two publications based on two different hypotheses that he asked in his thesis. His publications will be of similar format to his thesis (introduction, hypotheses, methods, results, discussion and then conclusion). He will be subjected to more scrutiny as he moves through the publication process. If he is patient he will turn his thesis into two publications in relevant journals within his field. His supervisor also gets to put their name on his journal articles because they help fund and guide him through his research. This is part of the collaborative process of science, and why you might see many names on a published article.

Question: Is there any risk in snooping around the darknet?
Answer: By definition, you can't.

The darknets are networks that are no longer accessible to the public Internet. Cut off physically by changes in the network.

If we are talking about the Deep Web, probably not. A lot of the Deep Web is really standard stuff, like one time dynamic pages for buying plane tickets. As well, with the Deep Web you can't get a result unless you know precisely what you're asking for [querying] or have the authentication required [login walls]. As a result, it isn't quite browseable in the same sense, with brief views given to us in the course of our standard use.

If we are talking the Underweb, like Tor, maybe. There's lots of rather trivial things on there, pirated movies and games, and then there's the illegal stuff. If you aren't actively looking for the illegal stuff, then no. Chances are you're in the clear. If you are though, then the authorities might want to talk to you if they can unmask your identity -- Tor is known to have FBI-operated nodes for the distinct purpose of identifying criminal traffic.

Question: Why did it take so long for FTC to accuse Vemma of creating a pyramid scheme?
Answer: Many pyramid schemes masquerade as legitimate MLMs. The structure is identical, so just because it has that kind of structure isn't enough for the government to file charges. They need *evidence* that something illegal is happening.

Question: Why does it feel normal to sit back down in your chair, but if you sit in someone else's it feels warm? Why can't we feel our own butt warms?
Answer: When you sit in a chair it will change to the temperature of your body. So you wouldn't know the difference because the temperatures would get to the same degree as you currently are. Other people's body may be at a higher temperature at the time so you will notice the difference as the chair would be as warm as the person was.

Question: How do Blimps work?
Answer: Blimps will have a second gas bag in the envelope that can be filled with air, this increases the density of the helium making the blimp heavier. Helium can also be vented if the blimp needs to descend rapidly. 

Blimps can also have variable pitch engines that can be pointed up or down - some blimps are slightly heavier than air and need constant engine thrust to maintain altitude

Question: If money or politics were no object, how would we best protect the power grid from a solar storm, EMP or attack?
Answer: >  No matter how remote the possibility, any chance is too high to leave it unprotected.

Really? What about a chance smaller than the chance humanity just gets wiped out outright?

But to answer your question, burying it underground would protect against just about any currently available form of attack - except you said *zero* risk so we'd have to protect against every possible form of attack, even the ones we don't know about yet, which is impossible.

Solar storms, at least, are pretty easy, you just don't run long uninterrupted power lines. Simply putting breakers along the lines would probably do the job of stopping induced current.

Question: Why are people able to get your IP from your Skype name but not from other things?
Answer: If you've got a direct connection to someone (through a client like Skype), they can see the IP address you're using.  Other things like Facebook aren't a direct connection between users; both people access the server to see what's been posted to it.

It's a question of who has access to the information.  If I ran a message board, I could allow administrators to see the IP addresses of everyone posting.  Or I could publish those next to a post if I wanted to.  The people with whom you're speaking are advising you avoid direct connections with people who might want to do your system harm.

Question: How and when did the world universally agree to use the same basis for time (24 hours, each of 60 minutes, etc)
Answer: The use of a 24 hour clock relates back to the Ancient Egyptians (and relates to why there are 60 minutes in an hour).

Thanks to documented evidence of the Egyptians' use of sundials, most historians credit them with being the first civilization to divide the day into smaller parts. The first sundials were simply stakes placed in the ground that indicated time by the length and direction of the resulting shadow. As early as 1500 B.C., the Egyptians had developed a more advanced sundial. A T-shaped bar placed in the ground, this instrument was calibrated to divide the interval between sunrise and sunset into 12 parts. This division reflected Egypt's use of the duodecimal system--the importance of the number 12 is typically attributed either to the fact that it equals the number of lunar cycles in a year or the number of finger joints on each hand (three in each of the four fingers, excluding the thumb), making it possible to count to 12 with the thumb. The next-generation sundial likely formed the first representation of what we now call the hour. Although the hours within a given day were approximately equal, their lengths varied during the year, with summer hours being much longer than winter hours.

Officially, it was at the International Meridian Conference (October 1884, Washington DC) that Lewis M. Rutherfurd proposed:

*"That this universal day is to be a mean solar day; is to begin for all the world at the moment of mean midnight of the initial meridian, coinciding with the beginning of the civil day and date of that meridian; and is to be counted from zero up to twenty-four hours."*

The conference adopted the resolution and that's why we have a 24 hour clock.

But the issue of why we have 60 minutes in an hour has a foggier answer. Although it is unknown why 60 was chosen, it is notably convenient for expressing fractions, since 60 is the smallest number divisible by the first six counting numbers as well as by 10, 12, 15, 20 and 30.

So that is why our system of time consists of 24 hours, each of which are made up of 60 minutes.

(EDIT: Citations)

[Scientific American](_URL_0_)

[Wiki Article](_URL_1_)

Question: Why don't politicians get charged with libel when many of them knowingly lie or misrepresent facts?
Answer: For a start, lying isn't necessarily libellous. You can say all sorts of untruths without defaming anyone.

Second...if you sued a politician for lying, just thing of the exposure you'd be giving their arguments? Money couldn't buy that sort of airtime (well, OK, in the US it probably can).

Third - some countries like the UK specifically exclude party manifestos from breach-of-promise rules. IIRC in the UK this came as a result of someone doing what you suggested.

So - apart from not working, being counterproductive and they'd just move the goalposts anyway, no reason at all!

Question: How does the network know where my mobile phone is?
Answer: Your cell phone connects to the local tower and identifies itself uniquely. Calls directed to your number go through that tower to you.

Question: How come heat seeking missiles don't go straight to the sun?
Answer: Older versions of the AIM-9 Sidewinder did routinely lock on to the Sun or clouds, sending them ballistic. Newer versions have corrected this by adding optical filters to the sensor to only allow certain bands of infrared energy into the sensor for detection. This same system is used to help defeat flare countermeasures.

Question: Why don't countries apart from the US have manned moon landings?
Answer: I think the US sent a man to the moon more for national pride than for any practical purpose.  JFK declared America's intent to complete this mission in order to send a message to the Soviets and the world that the US was a superior nation. 

Today, it's less about pride and more about science.  It makes no sense to send manned flights, because unmanned flights are cheaper and more versatile, and can do things that humans can't, like stay there for long periods without food.

Question: why our eyes create pink visual stains after we look at strong light?
Answer: There are multiple ways that our eyes adapt to different light conditions. One of the ways this automatically occurs is due to the way the light receptors in the back of the eye work.

In each light receptor cells are molecules called retinal (with an A, not retinol), which are the ones that react with light and eventually cause a signal to be sent to your brain. The act of being hit with a photon of light and activating the signal makes the retinal molecule inactive, and it needs to be reactivated by an enzyme before it can work again.

In intense light, all the retinal molecules quickly become inactivated, and very few are available to pick up new light signals. When you return to dark conditions, it takes a while for the retinal molecules to become reactivated, which is why you are somewhat blind for a while until your eyes adjust.


The second reason you see stains is because of the way your brain processes visual signals. It quickly adjusts to different light conditions as the new "normal" and picks up contrasting signals as if there is something there, even though it's just the absence of light. When you look at a strong light, then away, it looks like there is a dark spot of the same shape until your brain figures out the new "normal".

Question: How do people hack into an intranet and why do we need anti-virus systems in an intranet?
Answer: There are a lot of ways someone might "hack into an intranet" but a simple way to understand why something might get through the barriers surrounding an intranet is to consider USB thumb drives. A virus on a thumb drive might easily be introduced within the network even with the strongest of barriers between the internet and intranet.

Question: Why do both of these images exist?
Answer: They're both dishonest.

The first image takes the national-debt as a fixed amount -- probably the debt held by the public if I place the number correctly -- and says "this is how much all presidents in history before Obama borrowed."  That's blatently false; we have borrowed a good deal more than that but we've paid down a good chunk of it with high tax rates, particularly after WWII.  

It then compares that value to the FORECAST increase in the national debt caused by all US policies (Obama's or otherwise) during Obama's term.  Some of those forecasts are based on worst-case-scenario numbers and many of them are the result of policies put into place by the Bush, Clinton, and Reagan administrations.

So the first image compares apples to motor-oil, really.

The second is also dishonest.  It portrays the percentage increase in  debt under each president.  So if (and I'm making these numbers up) Clinton ended his term with $5 Trillion in debt and Bush increased it by 115% that would mean that Bush increased the debt by $5.75 Trillion, bringing the total to $10.75 Trillion.  Obama could then increase that by 16%, which would be $1.72 Trillion.  Clearly the use of percentages makes the difference between Bush and Obama's debt increases seem much bigger than it really is.

Furthermore, note that the Obama figure does not consider the future of his Presidency but it does compare him to the full terms of other Presidents.  It would be more honest to portray it as an average value per year.

Of course, all of those ignore the fact that the economic realities facing Clinton (boom times) and Obama (neigh-on-depression) dramatically influenced the debt.

Question: When property prices in NYC are as crazy as they are, how come there's so much social housing in prime areas? Can the occupants buy their homes at a discount? How does a person become eligible for social housing in uptown Manhattan/downtown Brooklyn?
Answer: Laws on the books from the Great Depression era were set up to protect renters from huge rent increases. Many folks were renting apartments (think of the 1950's TV shows like the Honeymooners and I Love Lucy) and laws were put in place to protect the 'poor' and working class voting majority from the 'rich' property owners. 

Now you have 'rent controlled' and 'rent stabilized' apartments, mostly in Manhattan and Brooklyn that cost say, $300 or $1000 respectively, per month while the similar units on the open market can cost 10-20x the price. 

Note that these units and the 'rights' to super cheap rents are inherited and make up 20% or more of the total housing stock. Folks who pay $300 a month for 2-bedroom apartment in SoHo may use this as their 2nd apartment and really live outside the city but get to keep an apartment that costs much less than monthly automobile parking. This under-utilized housing has the effect of increasing the demand for the 80% or so of the housing that is available to the average person and serves to increase prices further.

The whole system should really be phased out as it is an anachronism from nearly a century ago, but it's tough taking back benefits from folks who have come to believe that it is their family inheritance.

Question: Why are final seasons/episodes of shows often done/received poorly?
Answer: Last seasons are often bad because the show has run out of ideas, their ratings are falling, so they have to try something new to breath new life into the show.  When it works, you keep watching, when it doesn't, you get a bad last season.

It also has a lot to do with the cast. Ashton Kutcher and Topher Grace were the two most important characters to  *That 70s Show*, without them it was greatly diminished.

Last episodes are tricky because expectations are high, and often differ between the fans.  If you liked Tracy (the mother) but didn't like Robin, a mid-season episode of *HIMYM* the features Robin wouldn't bother you so much.  But a season finale where Robin lives happily ever after and Tracy gets screwed, no so much.  

Plus, the creators are on the spot to be creative.  A lot of shows end with a "and the all lived happily ever after, the end."  That's ok for some shows, but a lot of creators was something more, especially for shows like *Dexter* and *Breaking Bad*, where happily ever after doesn't fit.  That means taking risks, and often, the risks don't pan out.

Finally, getting that perfect, tie up all the loose ends in a completely satisfying and appropriate end is really hard.  I think that was the deal with the much maligned ending of *The Sopranos*, there was no perfect way to wrap it up, so the creators left it up in the air.

Question: Explain how recording onto the old vinyl records works.
Answer: Why should the vocals be different from the instrumental music? Vocals are made up of sound waves just the same. You are drawing a distinction which is physically meaningless.

Question: I am trying to understand why the sun sets at different times all along the west coast of the US. Sunset was at 4:53 PM today in San Diego, 5:05 PM in San Francisco, and 4:43 PM in Seattle. I am baffled: why is SF the latest but it's in the middle of California?
Answer: San Francisco is at 122.4194° W

San Diego is at 117.1611° W, so, way east of SF.

Seattle is at 122.3321° W (about the same as SF) but also much farther north where winter days are shorter.

Question: What is Maoism? Why is Chairman Mao considered a great leader when he caused a lot of deaths?
Answer: My family is Chinese and my parents grew up during this period and almost everyone in my family and relatives dislikes him for what he had done.

My parents are pretty outspoken about their dislike for him (after all, they're Americans now) and my relatives are still in China but they don't really praise him either. From what my parents told me - they dislike him because my relatives way back when were relatively wealthy, but it is because they had a lot of land and they worked hard on that land, but when Mao came into power, they took his land my relatives had worked hard on and gave it to other people who may not know how to work the land properly and therefore my grandparents and parents grew up in poverty. They had rations for everything from even flour and salt and obviously meat and vegetables, and were hungry all the time, and both my parents had a ton of siblings, so growing up during that period wasn't the easiest. I think they only had dumplings for like Chinese New Year or something, and normally they'd just eat stuff like millet porridge and Sorghum noodles. When they were children they ahd to go to the country and work in the fields before they could go to school. Also, in schools they had to salute chairman mao and basically idolize him - it almost reminds me of Hitler and North Korea in a way.

So I guess my point is that there are chinese people who dislike him out there.

Question: Why is there a northern and southern accent in the United States?
Answer: There isn't *a* southern accent and *a* northern accent.  There's a Boston accent, a couple different New York City accents, a Chicago accent that is similar to much of the Midwest, Minnesota has a distinct accent, Kentucky isn't quite the same as Tennessee, North Carolina and South Carolina sound a  bit different from each other, East Texas sounds different than West Texas, and let's not forget the millions of Texans whose accents are influenced by the prevalence of the Spanish language in their area.  Maine is different than Maryland, Baltimore has a distinct sound among Marylanders, and I'm still leaving many US accents out.

People are just different.  The reason the different accents exist is the exact same reason different languages exist.  When one community is isolated from another for long periods of time, slight changes start to creep into speech patterns.  Remember electronically recorded and instantly broadcast speech is a new phenomenon in world history.  Even dictionaries are only a couple hundred years old.

People are just different, and sometimes when you put hundreds or thousands of miles between two groups with no means of instant communication, they'll come up with different ideas for doing things.

Question: Why do antidepressant often have depression as a side-effect?
Answer: Anti-depressants are a guessing game as far as prescribing them. You're messing with the brain my friend. There's no telling exactly how they'll affect one particular person and how they feel.

Having used them, it's hard to tell exactly what feels different sometimes. You think a strange thought that you've never thought before and wonder if it's just you or the drug. Or feel a certain way and can't tell if you actually feel that way, or if the drug makes you feel that way. Crazy stuff.

Question: Why does it always come down to "drink lots of fluids" when you tell the doc you gave the flu?
Answer: There's no cure for influenza once you're sick. It's a self-limiting and mild infection that your immune system will fight off, all you have to do is keep your body working long enough for it to do so. That means sleep and fluids.

Question: What's a cellular automaton ?
Answer: For starters, it's not really an essential part of understanding computing.  The idea came about as more of an entertaining thing to do with computers.  At best, they're a footnote in the history of computing.

Take a grid.  Each cell of that grid can either have a thing in it or not.  Now, given some rule based on the neighboring cells, you can decide if that cell has a thing in it for the next generation.

The original example was [Conway's Game of Life](_URL_0_), the rule were fairly simple:

1. A live cell with 1 or 0 live neighbors dies of loneliness.
2. A live cell with 2 or 3 live neighbors is happy and survives.
3. A live cell with more than 3 live neighbors dies of overcrowding
4. A dead cell with exactly 3 live neighbors gets colonized with new life.

With these 4 simple rules, it turns out that surprisingly complex patterns can arise.  There's a virtually limitless number of different rule sets you can come up with, all of which have different patterns of behavior.

Question: How a "double bounce" or "super bounce" on a trampoline works
Answer: Fred is going to double bounce George.  As George comes down from a jump, Fred jumps in and lands right next to George.  Their combined weight and momentum stretch the trampoline tighter than it would with just one of them.  At the bottom, Fred hops off to the side, however the trampoline is still stretched very tight.  That extra tension propels George higher than he would be able to have gone on his own.

Question: What does 10th Cousin, once removed mean?
Answer: First cousins have the same grandparents. Second cousins have the same great-grandparents. Third cousins have the same great-great-grandparents. And so on.

So 10th cousins have the same great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-great-grandparents.

"Once removed" means that you're of different generations. For example, if Joe is my first cousin, once removed, that means Joe's grandfather is my great-grandfather. Another way to think about it is that if someone is my Nth cousin once removed, then they're Nth cousins with one of my parents. Likewise, an Nth cousin twice removed would be Nth cousins with my grandparents.

[Wikipedia has some graphs to help visualize it](_URL_0_)

Question: Why do Jehovah Witnesses not celebrate Holidays?
Answer: exJW here. We avoided Easter because we celebrate the last supper in form of The Memorial, instead of Jesus' resurrection.

As for the rest of the main holidays, we avoided Christmas due to its roots in paganism, Halloween due to its association with the occult, and birthdays because King Herod had John the Baptist beheaded for his birthday. Also, pagan roots.

Question: Dietary Effect on Inflammation
Answer: For one I imagine you're losing weight, which will help.

Could also be improving your microbiota, our microbiota (particularly in the gut) isn't very well understood but it's been show in research it can affect you physically and mentally(depression, anxiety etc.)

_URL_0_

Your diet is also likely decreasing your cortisol, caffeine and sugar are major contributors to that,

_URL_1_

The biggest reason is likely that you're just being more aware and self conscious of what you eat and how you treat your body.

Question: Why do people work more hours today than we did in the 50s and 60s? What has happened to cause this?
Answer: I think it includes factors like the erosion of the middle class, stagnation in wage growth, predatory lending and insufficient welfare. I think people are over committed to debt, being paid less in real terms and are scared of losing their jobs partly due to the way the unemployed get treated.

Anybody who blames women entering the workforce are missing the point.

Question: Is North Korea a credible threat to the the US? Aren't these the same guys we mock mercilessly?
Answer: North Korea is not a credible threat to the US. There are a bunch of US military stationed in South Korea who could be in danger if war broke out there. NK has a large but generally poorly equipped and trained army. They could potentially cause a decent sized mess in South Korea in the early days of a war, but they would be pretty quickly defeated. The NK military does not have any reasonable power projection ability. They've got some missiles, but likely nothing capable of reaching the US, and certainly nothing with that sort of range that has been well tested and could be considered reliable. Any overt military action against the US would pretty much be suicide for the NK government. 

I guess they could create more mischief via their "cyberwarfare division" or whatever they call their hacker teams. But it's pretty unlikely that they could cause serious problems that way.

Question: If computers have to follow direct commands, how can it choose things at random?
Answer: Computers usually *can't* choose things at random.  Instead, they have algorithms that can generate [psuedo-random numbers](_URL_0_).  This often involves seeding the number generator with various "random" factors, such as mouse movements, the current time, and/or the contents of the computer's memory, which are all unlikely to be the same the next time a "random" number is needed.

Although, with [special hardware](_URL_1_), more-truly-random numbers can be generated.

**Edit:** Also, I don't see what this has to do with living things making choices.  Your choices are decidedly *not* random.  If they were random, they wouldn't be choices.  You don't do the mental equivalent of flipping a coin or rolling a die every time you decide something. Rather, you weigh the pros and cons, and reach an informed decision.

Question: Why do people say ouch even when something doesnt hurt.
Answer: It's a learned response. Different languages have different words for "ouch". You expect something to hurt so you go through the learned response.

Question: Why don't bands release instrumental tracks alongside their regular albums?
Answer: In most cases there just isn't enough demand to justify an instrumental release alongside the standard album. In the rare cases that it does happen there's usually a proven demand for it, either that band or the genre as a whole do well with just instrumental releases.

Question: Why can we digest salad (Leaves etc.) but not grass?
Answer: Most of grass is made of cellulose and human digestive system is not equipped to extract energy from it. Unlike cows. Some parts of grasses can be eaten, like grains, where the glucose is stored.

Leafs have less celluloce and the sugars are stored in a form more suitable for humans.

Question: What did they do before eye-glasses? What if people had horrible vision?
Answer: They were said to be blind or have clouded vision. In some societies they were taken care of or depending on their vision could be mostly self sufficient. In others they were killed or left to die for being weak.

Question: What makes a CD an EP and not an LP or album?
Answer: EP and LP are terms that originated with the technology of vinyl records.

An LP is a 12" vinyl record which when played at 33-1/3 rpm gave you ~22 minutes per side -- they were able to stretch that a little bit but not too much.

A 'single' was a 7" vinyl record with a bigger hole in the middle (it was developed by a different company who originally wanted to sell a different player) which when played at 45 rpm gave you a single song on each side of 3-5 minutes (later stretched when singles got longer).

An 'EP' was in the middle.  The format varied but often it was a 7" record but played at 33-1/3 RPM instead of 45 RPM so you could fit perhaps 10 minutes on each side.

In the industry, the format ceased to matter after a while, an EP became synonymous with a 3-6 song release.  Whenever a group is inspired enough to write more than a single and its B-side but not inspired enough to write a full album they could release something in the middle and call it an EP.

Question: Why are Camillia Bowles and Kate Middleton Duchesses and not Princesses?
Answer: It's slightly complex. This is close, if I think, but maybe not exactly right.

There are basically two kinds of princes: A Prince of the United Kingdom is an honor granted by the sovereign to her sons and grandsons (and now, great-grandsons). They are addressed by their first names, and a 'the.' "The Prince William," "the Prince Charles."

Separately, there is the title of Prince of Wales, a peerage customarily held by the heir to the throne, as it is now. The holder is addressed as _____, Prince of ______. "Charles, Prince of Wales."

To make it more confusing, royal family members are often given other titles, usually named as Dukes when they get married.

The wife of a peer is may use the feminine version of her husband's title: the wife of the Duke of Somesuch is the Duchess of Somesuch, the wife of the Prince of Wales is the Princess of Wales. That does not extend to the wife of a Prince of the United Kingdom, since that's not a peerage, and the title is linked to their name, only. The wife of the Prince Billybob is "the Princess Billybob."

Accordingly, Diana was both "Diana, Princess of Wales" and "the Princess Charles," and used the former. Camilla is, actually, also Camilla, Princess of Wales, and "the Princess Charles," but chooses not to use describe herself as a princess, because it's so strongly associated with Diana. Since her husband is also the Duke of Cornwall, she calls herself the Duchess of Cornwall.

Prince William is *not* the Prince of Wales, he's only the Prince William. Kate would have to be "the Princess William" to use that title, which isn't favored. But he is the Duke of Cambridge, so she is the Duchess of Cambridge. When the Queen dies, and Charles becomes King, William will become the Prince of Wales, and then she will be Catherine, Princess of Wales.

Question: Does cooling a sealed bottle/can of soda and then letting it come back to room temperature cause it to lose carbonation?
Answer: No.

The sealed bottle or can is much closer to an enclosed system than an open container - it can stay very well carbonated for months. It would be a reasonable simplification to say that the carbonation hasn't changed at all.

However, there is another property that is important, Solubility. When you open up the can, the drink itself will lose carbonation due to relatively low levels of CO2 compared to the container it was stored in as time goes on. When the drink is colder, CO2 (and other gases) are more soluble. So, as the temperature increases, there is less dissolved CO2, which likely causes the impression that the drink was less carbonated to begin with.

Question: How do dressmakers/tailors make garments bigger or take them out?
Answer: Clothes are made from several pieces seamed together. Seams are usually created by folding the edges of the pieces over in a complicated way and sewed over. The way the pieces are folded on the edges depeond on what kind of seam you want to create (hold firmly / have a little flexibility / comfort on the inside / plethora of other parameters ... ).

When taylor makes the clothes bigger he cuts the thread and undoes the seam. then he refolds it a bit differently. There is almost always a bit more cloth in the seam than is necessery so the taylor can fold the seam in such way that the clothes would be bigger. If there is not enough material the taylor can put a wedge of material in between the pieces. So at first there was cloth - seam - cloth, now there would be cloth - seam - added material - seam - cloth.

Question: When, why and how did Monday through Friday become a classic work week, with weekends Saturday and Sunday?
Answer: Unions pushed for a standard 40 hour work week with 2 days off.

Question: Farting during physical activities
Answer: This is not a normal physiological state. You may have some abnormal intestinal flora which cause more gas, and the effect is potentially pronounced by the greater rate of metabolism your body experiences after physical exertion. You should consult a family doctor or gastroenterologist regarding these symptoms, however.

Question: Other then the large influx of cash from the IPO (I get that reason), what are other reasons a company would want to go public?
Answer: I'll use Uber as an example and make up numbers.

Two guys start a company. The company really catches on, but it is expensive to grow and they really aren't making much or any profit. The two guys own this company that they could sell for $1 billion, but they live on $100K/year salaries. $100K might seem like good money, but a person might want to live larger than that if they own a company worth $1 billion.

If they do an IPO, they can sell 90% of the company for $900 million, that's $450 million each. Awesome, now they can live large because they have converted most of their ownership of the company to cash. Spending $20 million/year is a lot larger lifestyle than $100K/year.

So, a year or two later the investors who own 90% of the company decide to get rid of the original guys. Oh, it sucks for them to be out of a job, but they still have their $450 million each AND their 10% of this growing company. Don't feel too bad about the guy who lost his job.

Question: - Why do motorcycles only have manual transmission motors?
Answer: Motorcycles with automatic transmissions exist. Perhaps you don't see as many as you live in a society where people who ride motorcycles are the sort who want power and control, or are cost-conscious, both of which manual transmissions have an advantage.

Also, there isn't anything about a standard motor which makes it 'manual' or 'automatic', the transmission is a separate piece which transmits motor power into the system which drives the wheels.

Question: Why scientists can date the age of Earth, but not the Egyptian pyramids or the Sphinx?
Answer: Radiometric dating works by comparing the ratio of isotopes in an object now to a known reference ratio at the object's inception. Each element has a different useful range of applicability based on the half-life of the decaying isotope, with increasing error and eventually uselessness outside that range. C14, for example, is only useful out to about 60,000 years. In the case of dating the Earth, it was actually the Uranium -- >  Lead decay which was used to determine the age, based on the content of these isotopes in the oldest known zircon minerals in rocks found in Australia and Canada.

As far as the Egyptian artifacts go, carbon dating only really works on objects which contain(ed) organic material. Dating the stone used in the construction of the pyramids and the Sphinx would of course tell you how old the rock is, but not when these objects were constructed.

Question: Is there any biological significance to "dating your mother"?
Answer: Not sure, but one could surmise there is an evolutionary aspect. "I know my mother was able to support and rear a child so a woman similar to her would have a higher likelihood of doing the same".

Question: Whats that feeling when you're about to fall asleep that everyrhing feels small and heavy?
Answer: Could you be describing [Alice in Wonderland syndrome](_URL_1_)? I used to get this pretty often when I was a kid. Not sure if this is what you're describing but a "fucked up" feeling when on the brink of falling asleep meets the criteria.

The exact cause isn't known. Basically it's a disturbance in perceptions, such as perception of time, proprioception (your sense of where your body is in space), sound (to me, very quiet sounds seemed horribly loud in a sinister way), size, and distance. The state can apparently be triggered by migraines, lack of sleep, the Epstein-Barr virus (the virus that causes infectious mononucleosis), something else, or nothing identifiable.

People have discussed similar experiences on here before, at length [\(first\)](_URL_0_) [\(second)](_URL_2_).

Question: Why do we sometimes remember dreams days or even weeks later?
Answer: That's probably a case of confabulation, where your brain makes plausible sounding lies to fill in a memory gap. The tricky part about confabulation is that you can only notice this when other people point out contradictory facts.

Question: How did Lani Sarem and Handbook for Mortals "game" the NYT Bestseller list?
Answer: Usually the author or publisher buys the copies.  The trick used to be that the NYTimes (or other list makers) don't record every sale to create the best seller lists, rather they sampled certain bookstores and it wasn't too hard to figure out which ones were the sampled ones and then buy lots of copies of a certain book at just the sampled bookstores.  

Today, there are services that do a better job (and book sales are much lower) so a reasonable marketing budget is enough to buy enough books to make a best seller, especially in a less popular catagory.  

Think of it this way, if a publisher or author wanted to spend $100,000 on marketing, would they be better off spending all $100,000 on ads for a new book, or spend $50,000 buying the book (then give the copies to the fan club in a few years) and $50,000 on ads for the now NY Times best seller?

Question: why is the Scottish independence referendum positioned as neck and neck in the polls, whereas the bookmakers odds suggest the opposite?
Answer: I expect that the odds are down to a significant number of people betting the outcome will be 'No'. Odds aren't just calculated by looking at what will *probably* happen, but also by the amount of money already taken in by people betting. If the odds were, say, both even (which is what the polls suggest), and a disproportionate number of people bet on 'no', then if 'no' is the outcome, the bookmaker will lose out significantly. By stacking these odds, they can encourage people to bet the other way.

Question: Is there a difference legal or otherwise between "sponsoring" a politician or bill vs a bribe?
Answer: Sponsoring legislation is the term for when a member of Congress introduces a bill, it has nothing to do with money, bribery or corruption.

Question: What exactly IS Citizen's United, and why is it bad?
Answer: Citizens United itself is a nonprofit organization that helps conservative candidates win elections. That's not important. What is important is that when Citizens United tried to broadcast an anti Hillary video before the Democratic primary, they were told they weren't allowed. This started the Supreme Court case Citizens United v. The Federal Election Commission. It ruled that *prohibiting* organizations from "broadcasting electioneering [which is working actively for a candidate or party] communications within 60 days of a general election or 30 days of a primary " is unconstitutional. Many people think that this gives those organizations more power and control in DC than the average person does.

Question: How do all those many different anti-virus companies, even fairly obscure ones, have such huge but mostly similar databases of virus footprints? Do they get them from some common source?
Answer: Unfortunately I have never been able to remember the correct name, but there is an agreement to share virus information between "legitimate" anti malware companies. The exact definition of what defines a legitimate company, and how quickly to share the files has been debated a lot so I used to just refer to it as the quango whilst I was working for one of them.

But also it is really easy to find new malware, just hang out on file sharing sites and look for the latest movie or tv show, or "cracked" software, and there is a good chance that the majority of the results you will find are actually just malware.

Question: zombies (computing)
Answer: Zombies are DEAD processes. They can not be 'kill' (You cannot kill the DEAD). All processes eventually die, and when they do they become zombies. They consume almost no resources, which is to be expected because they are dead! The reason for zombies is so the zombie's parent (process) can retrieve the zombie's exit status and resource usage statistics. The parent signals the operating system that it no longer needs the zombie by using one of the wait() system calls.

From _URL_0_

Question: Humble bundles.. and how it works from the game developers' perspective. Also.. how much does each dev get from a bundle?
Answer: Not sure about the first question, but the amount the developers get is determined by the buyers themselves. When you buy a bundle from the site you can choose how to split the money between all the developers, the charities and the humble bundle site.

Question: Why is it that on most fans, the switch is ordered as off, high, medium, and low?
Answer: When you turn the fan on, the motor that powers the fan is running at max speed. When you turn the fan to medium or low, the motor is slowed down. Running the fan at the maximum speed of the motor is more efficient and the fan will last longer since the motor does not have to adjust to the increased power flow as you go from low to high. 

There is not a lot of strain on the motor when you turn the fan on, as the current flows without any limitation, and when you turn the power off, the fan stops on it's own with no adjustment of the speed of the motor. When you turn the speed of the fan down, the loss of current slows the fan down. Again, no strain on the motor.

Question: Why does the Black Lives Matter movement not protest black on black violence in Chicago?
Answer: Because the purpose of the movement is to bring attention to the high ratio of black victims of police brutality.  Black victims of police violence are often overlooked and their stories disappear.  The movement is geared toward bringing this issue to light and helping to end it.  Not every organization can work on every issue.

Question: Why do east Asian adult actresses seem as if they don't enjoy the act in adult movies?
Answer: This is primarily a Japanese thing rather than an Asia-wide thing. Making and distributing porn is technically illegal in Korea and China, but the stuff that does exist typically doesn't have the rapey feel to nearly the same degree (and they certainly don't make as high-pitched noises). Thai and Flip porn seems to be semi-amateur and based out of sleezy prostitution markets, which leads to it looking (and probably actually being) exploitative.

 Japanese courtship is typically based on one person being the aggressor and the other being submissive, and of course porn exaggerates that dynamic (although, not as much as you might think). Even if a woman likes a man, they are expected to play hard-to-get and make the man lead them through the courtship. As such, compared to western or even other Asian cultures, Japanese women are very subtle and non-reactive to men 'making moves'. For example, many Japanese have the stereotype that Korean women are very, very aggressive in courtship, whereas most westerners would probably have the opposite stereotype and think Koreans are still a bit behind the times.

That said, Japan has a very high rate of virginity and sexual frustration, and I wouldn't be surprised if that was positively correlated with rape fantasies.

tl;dr Mostly just cultural, but probably some fetishism mixed in.

Question: The Horseshoe Theory.
Answer: It is the theory that the further you go to the left or right, the more similar the practices go.

Look at Nazi Germany vs Soviet Russia.

There is a lot of debate as to whether they were truly opposing forces. The Nazis began as National Socialists, the USSR was Communist, both were associated with the left wing in their founding.

And in practice they had many similarities. They killed or jailed political dissidents, they took away freedoms, forced military service, killed millions of their own citizens, annexed neighbouring regions, etc.

Even though we see Nazis as right wing fascists and Soviets as left wing communists, their functionality was very similar.

This is the horseshoe theory, that when you reach the extremes the practices become similar.

Question: Why are manholes located in the middle of the road?
Answer: It's best for city planning for them to run directly under the roads. After all, closer to the sidewalks, and you run into domestic gas lines, internet/phone cables, and maybe buried power lines.

Sewers are very spacious, large pipes. It makes sense to put them under a wide, uninterrupted path with no other cables under it.

Edit: this is all in the context that manholes are the access points to sewer lines.

Question: Why didn't people see "the dress" in the original colors of the photograph?
Answer: The lighting had a lot to do with it. Our perception of colors are based not only on the actual color of the object itself, but also on the object's visual environment (e.g adjacent colors and lighting). The dress in question appeared back-lit in the photo, so instead of merely perceiving the actual colors a lot of us automatically (and erroneously) color-corrected and subconsciously assumed that the colors were in deep shadow.

Question: What happens with excess electricity from a generator?
Answer: If there really was excess electricity because the motor speed was too high, the voltage would rise. Voltage fluctuation is acceptable within certain limits, but past a certain point it could damage the devices attached to it. Generators you can buy have regulators to prevent this from happening - see [here] (_URL_0_) for an explanation with diagrams. Short version: a control circuit sends a DC voltage to a rotor coil, which actively slows the motor down as needed to maintain the correct voltage.

Question: What do the numbers in your blood pressure mean?
Answer: There are two measurments of blood pressure. Systolic is a measure of blood pressure when your heart actually beats and pumps blood. Diastolic is the blood pressure between each individual pump. They are measured in units of mm Hg. This unit of measurement is basically saying "if mercury in a tube were under this much pressure, how high would it go?" Higher means more pressure. They aren't particularly correlated with each other, but as you can imagine, systolic blood pressure is always higher than diastolic.

EDIT: I thought I read some reports of near-equivalent systolic and diastolic blood pressure, but I haven't been able to find them, so I'll take it that systolic blood pressure never comes especially close to diastolic levels.

Question: The difference between CAR and TCR therapies.
Answer: Both CAR and TCR therapies are use T cells for treatment of cancers directed against specific targets known as antigens.

The difference, from what I've seen are:

CAR (chimeric antigens receptor) are usually used against antigens expressed on the surface of the cancer cell. The CAR itself is not a naturally occurring receptor, but man-made by combining parts of different naturally occurring proteins (hence it being called chimeric.)

TCR (T cell receptor) therapies are generally used to treat antigens that are expressed inside the cell and not in it's surface. TCR are receptors that naturally occur on T cells, the difference being these TCR are specific to a certain antigen. The TCR binds to a structure on the surface of the cell known as the MHC which samples the inside of the cells. When the "sample" contains the antigen they are specific to, they react.

Source: work in this field.

Question: Motion Sickness caused by Virtual Reality
Answer: Motion sickness happens when one of your senses perceives movement but the others don't.   For example, when you're in the cabin of a boat, your inner ear senses that the boat is rocking, but your vision doesn't corroborate.  In your case, your vision is perceiving motion when you are wearing the VR headset, but your inner ear and sensory nerves aren't.

In other words, you are getting motion sick *because* you are stationary.

Question: why so many banks have the name "First National Bank of ..." in the title.
Answer: A national bank has a national charter, as opposed to a state charter.  Hence there are lots of first national banks of ( name your state, city, county, etc.).

Question: If California is so dry, why is so much food grown there? Why not just grow it elsewhere?
Answer: Dry climates tend to have very rich soil because little rain leeches nutrients from the soil (but they need irrigation to make the soil productive).  

California also has a very mild climate that features a very long growing season allowing a large of variety of agricultural products to be grown (many are quite valuable because they can't be grown in other productive farm regions).

Question: Reason for genital mutilation in several African nations
Answer: FGM is carried out for cultural, religious and social reasons within families and communities.  For example, it is often considered a necessary part of raising a girl properly, and as a way to prepare her for adulthood and marriage. FGM is often motivated by the belief that it is beneficial for the girl or woman. Many communities believe it will reduce a woman's libido and discourage sexual activity before marriage.  FGM has many long-term consequences including abnormal periods, abdominal pain, infertility, psychological damage etc.  FGM is mostly carried out on young girls sometime between infancy and age 15. FGM is illegal in the UK and considered a violation of the her human rights.

Question: Why do my eyes water every time I yawn?
Answer: The tear film has three layers. The bottom layer is called mucin and acts very much like a glue to keep the tears from simply rolling off your eyes. The middle layer is the aqueous and is mostly salt water. The outermost layer is the lipid and is oily. The lipid oil keeps the tears from immediately evaporating. 

The tear fluids are created in small glands around your eyes and flow down tiny channels. 

You also have a tear drainage system called the punctum. You have one punctum in each upper and lower eyelid near the nose. These drain into the nasal cavity. 

In a healthy eye, tear fluids are constantly being produced, taken down channels to the eyes, lubricate and wash the eyes, and then drained out the punctum. 

When you yawn, you stretch the glands, channels, and punctum. Closing the punctum cause an overflow of tears, which will then roll down your cheeks. Squeezing the channels can squirt out all the fluid to the eyes, like too much mustard on a hot dog. Closing your eyes tightly can squeeze the tears already on the eye. This combination can produce tears when you yawn.

Question: what would happen if man had two Y-chromosomes instead of XY?
Answer: Y chromosomes are tiny, they have very few genes on them, mostly a couple proteins the testicles need.  

Woman have two X chromosomes, but each cell only uses one in every cell one X chromosome forms what's called a barr body, its basically inactivated and put aside not used for anything that cell does.  Which one is inactivated will be different from cell to cell, but each cell only uses one.  

Its mainly hormones that drive how masculine or feminine someone develops and there are cases of XY people being born with an insensitivity to testosterone in rare cases even having fully normal female genitals externally (don't have working ovaries or womb though).  

Basically two Y chromosomes would be fatal, wouldn't have a large number of genes and they would never make it to being born.  

Fortunately its *extremely* unlikely for that to happen, because one chromosome comes from each parent and a fertile mother is probably not going to have a Y chromosome.  Which means you'd need two separate mistakes to happen, the mother's egg would have to contain no X chromosome, and the  father's sperm would have to have two copies of the Y chromosome.  Not impossible though, people have been born with three or four or five X chromosomes, or XXYY  or XXXXY or in some case just one X and nothing else.  

But basically any child that makes it to being born needs to have at least one X. YY just doesn't have enough of the genetic information needed to live.

Question: How can some groups argue Nationalized Military "protects us, makes our lives, better, allows us to be "free", etc" while also arguing nationalized medicine is a disaster?
Answer: Just because one good has a clear case for being provisioned by the government doesn't mean that's true of all goods.

You're basically saying you have to believe that all goods and services should be privatized or believe that all have to be publicly provided.

People against public healthcare believe that managing healthcare through the state is less efficient than allowing private actors to handle it while pretty much everyone everywhere agrees that the state should maintain a monopoly on the use of violence, which means that things like police and the military should be state run rather than private outfits.

Question: Is "High Mileage" or "Synthetic" motor oil actually worth it? Or is it just BS
Answer: Sure, if you happen to have the needs that the oil is designed to address.  High Mileage oil is designed to deal with seals and bearing clearances that are generally wider than originally designed.  Synthetic oil is a lubricant that was formulated not simply by purifying crude oil, but by a chemist selectively building the molecules they want through various processes. With lubricating oil made from purified petroleum, you can only make it into a more refined version of what's already there, while with synthetic oil, you can make molecules that weren't there to begin with.  Often, synthetic oil is made from petroleum oil.   

Is it worth buying either of these?  That all depends on your particular application.  I put synthetic oil in my cars that I drive hard, but I don't put it in my lawnmower.  In my old jeep that leaks oil, I don't bother because it's just an old Jeep engine.  In my Mustang GT, I do run synthetic.

Question: Why are minorities overrepresented in commercials?
Answer: If it was only majority members being portrayed, the minorities would see what's being advertised as being mainly for majority members and would be less likely to spend money with that company. So showing minorities in the ads is to assure minorities that they are welcomed to be part of the culture being portrayed (say, buying a new Toyota or eating at Applebee's). Minorities feel underrepresented in general, and when they see themselves in a commercial, they feel represented and like they're welcomed or belong.. That's powerful. On the other hand, the majority group automatically feels welcomed no matter who is portrayed and isn't significantly put off by seeing minorities portrayed.

Question: Why are Arizona Iced Tea drinks allowed to place a price on its product?
Answer: Why *wouldn't* they be allowed?  There's no law forbidding the printing of a suggested price on a product.  In fact, lots of companies do it, including many different brands of potato chips, [like these](_URL_0_).

Generally, the company that produces the food item will only sell their product to retailer who sign a contract agreeing to sell it no higher than the printed price.

Question: Why are windshield wipers sold as singles not pairs? Do people often replace them one at a time?
Answer: Not every car has the same size blade for each side. 

For example, my Ford Focus uses a 22 inch driver and 19 inch passenger. 

My Nissan Versa uses a 26 inch driver and a 16 inch passenger. 

You should replace all wipers each season or two depending on quality. 

Also, buying the most expensive blade isn't the best. A properly clean windshield has more at play with water visibility than the most expensive wiper and a dirty window.

Question: Why aren't high rise office fires more common/unsurvivable?
Answer: They used to, then builders got wise to it. Now we build high rises out of concrete and glass, which don't catch on fire. We restrict how much flammable material is used on the floors of high rises and don't allow anything flammable at all in the stairwells (that's why the stairs are pretty much always barren concrete with metal railings), which makes it more difficult for the fires to spread between floors.

Question: How Does milk make people grow taller
Answer: Milk does not increase your growth potential, but this belief is probably so prevalent because milk is a very nutritious food. If a child is malnourished, they will have stunted growth, and you can clearly see this in impoverished countries. So milk itself doesn't make you taller, but having adequate nutrition does. Milk is just one way to get that nutrition.

Question: In a dark room, why can I see something better when I look just to the side of it, instead of directly at it?
Answer: As you probably know, your eyes have rods and cones that receive light. The cones pick up color, but the rods are highly light sensitive (and don't see color). Your cones are bunched in the middle of your eye (opposite your pupils) while the rods are lining around the cones. Long story short: you are looking at this object with your rod rather than your cones.

Question: ; Why is it, that when we don't eat for a long period of time, we feel sick and repulsed by food but eating is what makes us feel better?
Answer: Not sure if I can explain this properly but here goes. Not eating for a long time can cause stomach acids and digestive juices to build up . Juices like bile in excess cause some mild nausea , this maybe what you experienced when you tried not to gag. But as soon as you eat , these juices get put to work digesting and gets used up. So no more nausea or we don't feel sick.. hope this helps.

Question: how Ipods work and play music
Answer: First off, iPods don't produce the songs out of no where and it doesn't 'remember' to play them. You put the songs on there yourself and then later on you tell it which one to play.

The main part of an iPod is the hard drive which works just like your computer's does in the sense that you choose what you want to play/open and it will do it. Each individual song that you see inside of iTunes on your computer is it's own unique file located somewhere on your computer and when you sync all of that music to your iPod, it is actually moving each individual file over. Each of these files contains its own 'metadata' so that you can see the name/artist/album on your iPod and recognise and choose the right song to play.

I think that should pretty much answer what you asked. If what you really meant was how do hard drives work (as in how do they store so much data on such a small device) then I'll leave that open to someone else!

Question: Why do military planes like the AC-130 have their wings attached at the top of the fuselage, whereas most other civilian planes have their wings attached near the bottom?
Answer: Few key reasons:

High wing aircraft are easier for ground support vehicles to maneuver around, and engine clearance over the ground is greater making their overall fuselage profile closer to the ground and hence easier to load/unload. 

Also, greater engine-ground clearance mean less chance of debris being ingested by engines which is of particular importance since military aircraft tend to operate out of unfinished/rough runway surfaces far more often than civilian craft

Question: Why does the government tax income much more heavily than spending?
Answer: Because the economy runs on spending not on earning.  So we want to reward spending and encourage it.

There is no reason for the government to encourage earning more money.  People want to do that already.

Question: How can wrist-scan age tests determine your age?
Answer: Since the auto moderator won't allow an efficient answer here's a slightly longer one.

They can't. Wrist scans are discredited everywhere. You can't tell the difference between a 17 year old and an 18 year old via a wrist scan. You can't even tell a 15 year old or a 19 year old.

You can determine whether the bones have finished growing, but, perhaps unsurprisingly, being 18 or not is only loosely correlated with that actually happening.

We all knew people who were done growing at 14 and people who were still doing it at 19 so this shouldn't be a huge suprise.

There are doctors who will insist they can do this for money, but they are lying, as at FIFA.

FIFA doesn't care though. They care about the appearance of a fair competition so false positives are fine by them.

Question: Why don't we use counties as congressional districts?
Answer: Because many states have a lot more counties than congressional districts, especially in the East. Illinois has about 100 counties, and 18 congressional districts.

Question: Why do "forever storms" seem to exist in some planets like Jupiter (And now Stars)? How do they stay "forever" and not die?
Answer: They're not forever. Jupiter's storm is losing it's energy and will die out eventually. I think it's been overdue for almost a decade, but I'll let someone else find the literature on it.

Question: How does rust harbor tetanus?
Answer: And it's not the rust *per se* that necessarily harbors the tetanus. Tetanus is in the dirt. When you impale or puncture yourself on something dirty, you are sticking the dirt particles into your flesh into a place where air can't get to it. Tetanus is caused by *Clostridium tetani*, a spore-forming bacterium that likes to grow in wet, nutrient-rich, unoxygenated enviroments, like in closed-off flesh-wounds. The spores get shoved all up in there -- >  they germinate -- >  they multiply -- >  then they make tetanus toxin -- >  then lockjaw.

Question: How do products and services my wife searches for on her devices become targeted ads on mine moments or days later?
Answer: I agree with /u/KapteeniJ regarding Facebook, they’ve developed proprietary tech to connect your social graph to their advertising, which gets really fuzzy and creepy. To make it worse, they are Nielsen’s partner for demographic measurement across major websites across the web. That means Nielsen gets to ask them who you are (generally) without traditional Nielsen panels, surveys or tv boxes. Facebook has a hand in the huge advertising marketplace beyond what anyone usually thinks about.

The main thing you’re getting at is called re-targeting, where an advertiser (chasing you with a product around the web) is paying somebody to add you to a target because you visited their website or product page once. The next time you visit a site where they can bid on you (this is called programmatic advertising) they might do so if their buying parameters value you high enough to place the winning bid on that site. Programmatic is another beast of a topic I could go into another time.

I missed the removed part of your question, but In your case since your wife was viewing those products, it’s a misfire. There are multiple ways that advertisers identify you (it’s really third-party ad tech and data platforms that are identifying you):

- **Cookies**: cookies allow any web server you connect with to drop information in your browser, such as an ID, and access or update it every time you reconnect to them. When you’re on a site there are tons of web servers involved, including the site itself, their CDN (serving videos and images) and external partners like ad servers. The trend amongst browsers (desktop and mobile) is to block all third-party cookies, so for the most part the website’s ad tech and data partners can’t track you with cookies unless you explicitly allow it. Still worth confirming your settings. Blocking all cookies (including first-party) can have adverse effects on web convenience like staying logged in, and read on, because avoiding cookies alone won’t stop it

- **Resettable Device Identifier for Advertisers**: your Android phone, Android tv (including amazon firetv), chromecast, iOS device, Apple TV, Roku, Xbox, all have device identifiers that can be shared with advertisers, but you can choose to stop this with the Limit Ad Tracking setting. Google it for your platform. You can also allow ad tracking but reset your ID (like wiping your history) at any time.  _Can’t guarantee that all platforms I mentioned allow you to  Reset ID and Limit Ad Tracking_

- **Publisher identifiers**: let’s say you’re reading news while signed into the Washington Post, on an account you and your wife share, or watching tv on Hulu with a shared account, your account can be used in an anonymous capacity as an identifier to find you again later. Advertisers won’t ever have this ID, which is where the ad tech and data platforms come in. If you happen to visit sites connected to the same ad tech network (almost everyone is connected to Google’s AdExchange or some other major ad networks) you can be connected by the ad network via a combination of your anonymous publisher ID and another ID listed here. _p.s. Hulu and WaPo were random, I don’t know if they leverage this type of ad tech._

- **IP Address**: this one’s obvious. It usually isn’t a primary Identifier because an office would become a re-targeting nightmare, but it can be used by various platforms along with other info to connect dots.

- **Device fingerprinting**: A master combination of your user agent string(os, device, browser), ip, device resolution, browser extensions, browser capabilities, etc, etc. this is probably leveraged by some major platforms and vendors, like Google and Facebook, there’s very little we can do to combat it. 

Ultimately, online advertising (and avoidance) is a game of whack-a-mole. Ad blockers especially are just an arms race. I’m not necessarily saying it’s doom and gloom though. When an ad is shown there’s truly very little personally identifiable information available to advertisers, publishers, or the vendors in between. It may feel creepy but we know it’s often ineffective, which is just a waste of the advertiser’s money. 

There’s a lot more that can be said, unfortunately it’s hard to avoid this because you rarely know what sites are employing what ad tech vendors. Ghostery is an extension you can use to see some of that, and maybe add vendors to your ad blocker manually.

Source: Working in the ad tech industry for 6+ years (unfortunately).

Can provide better source material if anyone’s interested.

Question: How does walking long distances help raise fund?
Answer: It's an organized publicity event for the charity. Each person who will be walking gets sponsors to agree to donate $X to the charity for each mile that they walk. Walking is done - is a great social event, and the donations are made by those who agreed to sponsor a walker.  
  
For walks done around town, individual amounts raised might be small  - a few friends and family giving $25 or $50 dollars each.    
The Make A Wish walks that I have seen are a bit different. There is a minimum each walker must raise in order to participate ($5000 or more - if I remember correctly), but these are big trail hikes, and participants meals and hotel rooms for the event are covered.

Question: what is zoroastrianism?
Answer: It is an ancient religion that shared many elements with the later Jewish/Christian/Muslim religions. It has its origin and was practiced in the past in what is today Iran.

Today there are few Zoroastrians or Mazdayasna as they call themselves left. Less than 200,000 by some counts.

Question: How is it that cannabis has so many different 'strains' which change the appearance and other characteristics of a particular plant? Do other plants share similar significant genetic variations?
Answer: Cannabis have been cultivated for many different uses over the years which have resulted in a lot of genetic variation. This is not unusual with cultivated plants. Take for instance the mustard plant which not only is prominent in the spices section in the grocery store but also consists of about half the vegetable isle with variants such as the cauliflower, broccoli, turnip, cabbage, canola, etc.

Question: How can $25 provide someone clean water for life?
Answer: It might not be the case with water, but sometimes when you see charities being like "$5 can feed kids in Africa for 10 years", what you're actually paying for is shipping fees to transport goods that have already been allocated to African children, but aren't at the desired destination.

The world produces more than enough food to feed everyone on earth, but the problem is the food isn't reaching where it needs to be.

Question: Why in Boxing/MMA, does the timer disappear in the last 10 seconds.
Answer: That's because the clock on screen is not the "official" clock. There is a timekeeper on-site that is tracking the actual time left in a round. The one on screen is more of a close guess.

By hiding the timer in the last 10 seconds, it prevents people from going "Hey you ended the round too early!" Or some other controversy because the officials will be the ones to call the end of the round as it should be.

Question: How does resistance of an earbud affect the quality of the sound (eg: 32 ohm vs 150 ohm)
Answer: Essentially, when audio is played through a speaker, an analogue signal is sent to the speaker which causes the wire attached to a membrane to gain a magnetic charge and oscillate due to being very close to a permanent magnet.

The higher the impedance rating of the speaker, the more voltage is required to drive the coil. If more voltage is required, you're able to fine tune the signal much better - changes in voltage have a smaller effect. However, this is all at the expense of volume - a high impedance speaker will be unable to produce the same volume as a low impedance speaker driven with the same power.

High impedance speakers are typically used to make up for the tiny imperfections in an amplifier circuit caused by signal crosstalk or other induction issues. Most DAC/AMPs are shielded to minimise this, however there's always some issues that creep in, therefore you're able to account for them with a higher impedance output.

However, because higher impedance speakers are more difficult to drive, they don't have the same high frequency response as the lower impedance speakers. Ultimately it's a balance issue that the user must choose - higher frequency range and louder volume vs better accuracy (for lack of a better word) at a lower volume.

Question: Why is immigration such a hot button topic in UK politics at the moment? What effects are immigration having on the economy right now?
Answer: Mostly, it's a non-issue. However, trying to remove freedom of movement is an effective way for parties to appeal to their more authoritarian supporters.

Question: What is the meaning of "rareness" in meat and why are "rarer" meats preferred?
Answer: Ah Grasshopper.  I was once like you.  Raised by savages who thought all meat had to be cooked to a degree of dry grayness to be edible. 

Now, in my time of Enlightenment, I eat my steak medium rare.  My counsel to you is to take this gradually.  Move from well done to medium, then keep stepping down the scale of doneness until you reach a level of juiciness, texture and flavor that you like. Then go one step further just in case.  

Enjoy the journey young one.

Question: What happens when we crack our bones?
Answer: so between your bones, like the knuckles in your hands, there is fluid. In the fluid there are bubbles. When you crack your knuckles, you're hearing those bubbles popping.

Question: Why is my dog ecstatic to see me when I come home after going out for a couple of hours?
Answer: Dogs do not like being alone.  [In the wild wolves tend to live in packs of 5-11,](_URL_0_) so it is not normal for one of them to be alone for that long.  They get lonely.  Also, this trait was selected for when breading.  A dog that is ecstatic to see you after a brief separation is more likely to do what you want.  -hunting, tracking that kind of thing-

Question: Why is opening many restaurants in a short amount of time bad?
Answer: Most restaurants, and businesses generally, will fail within a couple years. You need to be prepared financially for the entire investment to disappear.

Question: Why are teachers paid so little?
Answer: For the most part, teachers are 'public servants'.  They work for the local governmental department of education....rather than working for a business.

A business usually gets money by selling a product or a service.  If they sell a lot (or sell for a lot) then they might have lots of money to pay their employees a higher amount.

But a government department gets it's money from the government's budget....and most governments are always looking for ways to cut costs and/or divert money here or there.  Unfortunately, many of them don't put a very high priority on education, and thus the school boards don't have a lot of money to pay their teachers with.  

That being said, from what I can tell, in most places teachers are paid an average or above average salary.  Especially once they have a few years experience.  

The problem, in most cases, is that teaching can be a very demanding and difficult job that might demand a higher salary, if it were in the private sector.

Question: Why does health care in the United States cost more than twice as much as other similar, developed nations?
Answer: There's several aspects to it. First, Americans consume a lot of care--people are too often on prescription medication, for example, and many people get expensive tests when the circumstances do not warrant it. One way that countries with centralized healthcare monopolies keep costs low is that they restrict access to healthcare by setting limits on coverage to what the public insurer feels is appropriate.

Another factor is that not enough of that care is preventive. Many (but not all) forms of preventive care are good investments that are cheaper than treatment of the ailments they prevent. This also brings in public health factors not strictly related to health care, such as exercise and diet.

Lastly, hospitals have to cope with a very high percentage of people who do not pay their bills, either because they do not have insurance or because they do not pay the remainder that is not covered. Because whether any particular bill will be paid is a hit-and-miss process, the hospitals inflate the cost of care in billing, hoping that those who do pay will make up for those who don't. Aside from a basic unfairness, there are many additional administrative costs. Any plan that leads to better general coverage will help combat this factor.

Question: How Do The Mega Rich Like Bill Gates Have Free Access To Their Own Money If It's Mostly In Investments And Stocks?
Answer: Having most of your money in investments and stocks is not the same as having all of your money in it. Gates is worth 91 billion dollars, so even if he had only 5% of his money as cash on hand he would still have 4.5 billion dollars available to him for purchases.

Question: When we are tired, does eating makes us less tired because of the energy provided in food, or the other way round because of the energy needed to digest the food?
Answer: Eating and digesting a large meal draws a lot of blood around the stomach and intestines. This can make you sleepy because less blood is perfusing the lungs (picking up oxygen) and taking that oxygen to the brain and other tissues. 

Eating *in general* provides you with energy to perform required bodily functions necessary for life. 

Tryptophan and melatonin, which were mentioned in another post, are never consumed via food in large enough quantities (even at thanksgiving) to make you sleepy. It's digesting the large turkey dinner that makes you sleepy. A melatonin pill will make you sleepy, but that is unrelated to food digestion.

Question: How did they measure the height of Mt. Everest?
Answer: With great difficulty over the between part of a century.

[The Great Trigonometrical Survey of India](_URL_0_) started from the ocean in 1802, and 100 feet at a time, took measurements and did a bunch of math, and worked there way across the sub-continent to the Himalayas, completing in 1871.

It was a great scientific achievement, lead during some of its more important years by George Everest, who received a knighthood for his efforts.

The basic technique is fairly simple.  You start with two sticks at sea level, a decent distance apart, and measure their exact longitude and latitude.  Then you put a third stick some distance away and inland, making a triangle.  Based on the distance between the first two sticks and the angles they form with the third stick, you can compute the thrid stick's exact position and elevation.

Once all that is done, you repeat, planting a stick further inland and drawing a new triangle.  The Great Survey did this with better instruments, better technique, and to a greatly scale than had ever been done before.

Question: In MLB baseball they have technology to show if the ball was inside or outside the strike zone, so why do they still have home plate umpires making subjective calls?
Answer: Tradition, and what people like. A ref's judgment is part of the game. Consulting a replay or computer to see if a ball was in or out of the strike zone every time there's a dispute changes the flow of the game.

Question: How do gas pumps know when my gas tank is full?
Answer: >  This mechanism has been around for a long time, so it is safe to say there is not a miniature camera inside the nozzle hooked to a microprocessor. It's purely mechanical -- and ingenious.
Near the tip of the nozzle is a small hole, and a small pipe leads back from the hole into the handle. Suction is applied to this pipe using a venturi. When the tank is not full, air is being drawn through the hole by the vacuum, and the air flows easily. When gasoline in the tank rises high enough to block the hole, a mechanical linkage in the handle senses the change in suction and flips the nozzle off.
Here's a way to think about it -- you've got a small pipe with suction being applied at one end and air flowing through the pipe easily. If you stick the free end of the pipe in a glass of water, much more suction is needed, so a vacuum develops in the middle of the pipe. That vacuum can be used to flip a lever that cuts off the nozzle.
The next time you fill up your tank, look for this hole either on the inside or the outside of the tip.

_URL_0_

Question: Why are most small cars front-wheel drive in favor of rear-wheel?
Answer: Additionally, building a rear-wheel drive vehicle is actually far more complex that building a front-wheel drive vehicle. This is for a number of reasons that would take a while to explain, but essentially involve torque, driveshafts, and space to accommodate the driveshaft

Question: Important Keynesian Economic principles
Answer: He believed that there is a basic relationship between total aggregate consumer spending and the rate of employment; that is when the consumers spend more, there's more employment, and when the consumers save more, there's more unemployment. Many of his policy suggestions stem from this. Whether or not there is a relationship between aggregate spending and employment is contentious and often debated.

Keynesian economics is the most popular economic school of thought at the moment and, for the most part, dominates politics. It is also the most common economic school taught at universities. The governments inflationary policies, stimulus, bailouts, and other policies, are all based on Keynesianism. In my personal opinion, it has been tried time and time again, and has shown to be a failure.

Question: How is the Gitmo force feeding procedure done on Mos Def different from the feeding tube procedure done in hospitals?
Answer: Presumably the people being force-fed in hospitals WANT to be force-fed.

Question: Why are some morbidly obese people given mobility scooters to get around? Doesn't it make the problem worse?
Answer: Because with obesity you can reach a point of no return very quickly. For instance, peripheral edema and diabetes can severely impair circulation, causing neuropathy and skin problems, damage that may never be healed no matter how much weight is lost. Joints wear down very quickly, impairing a person's ability. A severely obese person is going to likely have sclerotic arteries, and be chronically short of breath. 

A person big and "crippled" enough to use a mobility scooter will need to diet and exercise with the help and supervision of a medical professional. It's much more expensive and has many more issues involved that the average Joe wanting to lose that extra twenty. A morbidly obese person cannot simply go on a jog (as another poster said), they may actually die attempting it. 

I'm not saying that a person in that situation cannot improve themselves, but it is much more difficult, involved, and costly than the average weight loss scenario.

Question: What is the difference between regular ice cream and soft serve ice cream?
Answer: The amount of air in it.  To make it "soft serve" there is more air injected by the machine.  It's also mixed continuously, to keep the air from separating.  Yummy.

Question: what is the best way to go to sleep earlier?
Answer: The keys to reduce stimuli that has the potential to keep you awake an hour or two before bedtime. This includes electronic devices or anything that emits any kind of blue light. Once you pick a bedtime and a wake-up time, make yourself stick to it. It will take a couple weeks to get your body adjusted but it's very doable.

Question: Are those almost perfectly curved land forms near Poland and Kaliningrad man made?
Answer: They are natural. It's called "spit" according to wikipedia, this image from wiki explains clearly how it forms because of sand carried by water currents paralel to the land: _URL_0_

Mildly interesting fact - Poland is considering making a canal through that patch, because right now ships from Elbląg have to go thorugh Russian-owned strait near Kaliningrad,and Russians sometimes make problems for Polish ships (political issues).

Question: Why do we get cold chills when we're sick?
Answer: When we get sick, our body begins to produce various chemicals (e.g. cytokines) that travel in the blood to the part of the brain that controls our temperature regulation (in a part of the brain called the preoptic area of the anterior hypothalamus). These chemicals change the set temperature that we normally run on and make it increase,  causing a fever. (The fever, as TheDrunkPillow alludes, is to make it harder for the bacteria, virus, or parasites to move around and survive in your body.)

So - this is where it seems backwards - we now have a bunch of chemicals rushing around your blood stream, messing with the part of your brain that usually keeps you at a toasty 98.6F; you are now running a fever of 101F. Strangely you begin to feel cold and shake, when clearly you are not cold at all. This is due to a couple things: one being the altered sense of temperature that comes with messing with your internal temperature. Your body is attempting to get you to run a higher temp, and you will feel cold and begin to shiver until you get your temperature to that new, higher number. (The shivering helps your muscles make heat, aiding in increasing your overall body temperature.) 

The second, and more important of the two, involves the fact that once the brain is told to raise your temperature, certain brain cells begin to work on changing your blood flow to your arms, legs, and skin. The blood gets sent to your internal organs helping raise your temperature even more. This is, likely, the main contributor to you feeling cold when you're sick and running a fever.

I hope that helps! Can cite sources if you need it.

Question: LinkedIn (LNKD) is trading at $191.41 right now, but Microsoft has agreed to buy them for $196 a share in an all-cash deal. Why are they not trading at around $196?
Answer: The stock price is adjusted for risk. The sale will not go through for some time, so there is some risk attributed to this and time-value of money.

This means it should be worth a little less than $196.  As we get closer to the sell date, assuming the sale goes through as planned, the stock price should rise to near or at the sale price of $196.

Question: How have we not found a way to harness lightning
Answer: The average American household (with its 2.59 inhabitants) consumes 41 billion (4.14*10^10) joules each year. If your house ran on lightning alone, it would have to be struck more than 40 times per year! There are 114 million (1.14*10^8) households in America. Multiply these two numbers, and you have 4.72*10^18 joules of energy per year. Every lightning bolt on Earth in one year, captured perfectly with no loss of energy, would contain about 4*10^17 joules of energy. Thus, all the lightning in the entire world could only power 8% of US households. At best.

Could this few percent be realistically used? To answer this, we need to look at the practicalities of capturing and using the energy. First, we can imagine that the United States would probably have to restrict itself to domestic lightning sources. This limits us to about 30 million bolts per year. Now we can only power about 0.6% of our households.

How about the electrical engineering required to transform a lightning flash into a spark in a wall outlet? The greatest challenge here is that all of the lightning's energy is transferred in tiny fractions of a second. This means we must have an incredibly large battery (or capacitor) that can charge up instantly when the lightning strikes, then slowly and steadily let out the bottled up power when asked. Devices with these capabilities are both difficult to produce and very inefficient. Physics tells us that we cannot store and retrieve this energy with 100% efficiency. In fact, we lose the majority of the energy we are converting in nearly every process. Compounding the limited total energy and the difficulty and loss in accessing it, we can barely create a tiny fraction of a percent of the power that we use every day from atmospheric lightning.

Sadly, it is completely, utterly unfeasible to use lightning for electricity. But cheer up, it is still beautiful to watch.

[Source](_URL_0_)

Question: What is happening when we learn to like something like coffee?
Answer: The answer to this actually applies to a lot of things in life.

The thing is by repeating something continuously it becomes part of our routine and we become accustomed to it. As so, it doesn't feel out of place anymore even if it isn't the most exciting thing.

I also said that this applies to other things in life, and here something from mine. Last year I finished highschool and the university in which i started going is in another town. The bus ride was about forty minutes and as many people in my town we made that trip every day. It was really tedious to me at first and i remember complaining about it often. After a while it just stopped feeling weird and the busses were suddenly okay, the road was cool, the people weren't sweaty , etc... I guess my brain just started ignoring the little details that would bother me at first.

This also goes both ways. In the same breath, going to university was a great experience, and i couldn't stop talking about everything. All seemed so special. Then as times passed and all those awesome things became part of my routine it didn't seem that exciting anymore. Not that things got worse but it didn't feel like something else anymore, ot was part of the daily routine.

Question: If hypertension can cause erectile dysfunction, will lowering blood pressure to normal levels reverse erectile dysfunction?
Answer: Well one of the main side effects for Viagra is a drop in blood pressure. In fact viagra was originally researched as a hypertension drug. It was only when the erectile dysfunction side effect was discovered that Pfizer realized they had struck a gold mine.

Question: Why don't people questioned by ISIS pretend to be Sunni?
Answer: Sometimes they can determine likely sect-membership by names and/or addresses/neighborhoods/towns and/or even jobs.  But, with more certainty, they ask detailed and possibly obscure questions about religious practices that vary between the sects.  Most people raised as Shiites won't know some details about Sunni religious practices.

Question: Why can't car tires be solid rubber?
Answer: The "springiness" of an air filled tire helps delivery a smoother ride, and the ability to deal with minor imperfections in a road surface.  A solid (using readily available rubber technology) wouldn't have the same ability to deform itself, so every little bump or object on the road would be transmitted to the body of the vehicle.  Not only would this make for an uncomfortable ride, it would also affect steering, road contact therefor safety, and put extra stress on the remainder of the vehicle (through shock damage)

There are, and have been, airless tires developed.  But, they are not quite ready for everyday use, either due to price or perfromance

Question: What my download, upload, and ping numbers mean for my internet connection (picture included)
Answer: Simple, lets go off the "Internet works like mail" analogy. You love sending packages filled with jelly bean to your friends. However, depending on who you ask to deliver for them, they might take longer to get to your friend. Some messengers won't take big boxes, some love to bring your trucks of boxes but will hesitate at sending boxes to your friends. 

Now this box is metaphorically a lot of things, so to tie in - 

Ping - How long the box (or any internet message) takes to get there. If you are playing games, you don't want the Nuke of Death to activate five seconds after you click, you want it NOW. This is why you need a low ping, specially in shooting games. Because seriously, you totally shot him before he hid behind the wall.
Download speed - How many boxes they can bring you over a period of time. Rather simple.
Upload Speed - How many boxes you can send over a period of time. Because some messengers use planes, and some use garbage chutes, this may sometimes be slower. With a garbage chute bring you your mail boxes will come quickly, but do you think you'll be able to send much? 

TL:DR; Ping is how long a message comes and goes from your computer to another server, download speed is how fast you download, ditto for upload speed. 

Edit: Hurr durr, answer the question: A ping below 200 is expected, below 80 (preferably 60) if you plan on gaming with time sensitive games like shooters.  Your down/up speeds are average for the United States, but just don't look around. The kids on the other side of the playground are using teleporters. (50Mb/s and much higher)

Question: What is the reason for the movie clapper, i understand it might help with editing but why the clap?
Answer: It has already been answered, but I will add some more detail.

A camera records the visuals, an microphone records the audio, obviously. The problem is, that unlike with consumer cameras, the audio isn't recorded to the same file as the video. So, you are left with a very high quality audio track, and a separate video track. The board, which also has information about each scene, is what joins together the two tracks. On set, the camera man will film the board, and the audio people will record the sound of the board. Now, when the two tracks are brought into the editing suite, they can sync the audio by going frame by frame and finding the point in which the board closes. Then, on that frame they will line it up with the peak in the sound waves. This is a lot easier than someone figuring out how to sync voices up.

Question: At what point is bad grammar considered a new language?
Answer: The general rule of thumb is that if people can understand each other, it's a dialect, and if they can't it's a language. I think bad spelling and grammar vs actual rules is just a question of if people are consistent. If you accidentally wrote "teh" instead of "the", that's bad grammar. If you consistently write "ain't" along with all the people in your community, it's part of your dialect.

Question: how do sports announcers know how to pronounce all the players' names? Whose job is it to tell them?
Answer: One of my friends is a sports caster out in Nebraska and I asked him the same thing years ago(he casts football games). He said that he spends an average of 20-30 hours studying for every game he calls, from memorizing the pronunciations of players names, the number they wear, stats they are known for as well as interviewing players to get little known facts about their lives. In addition to this, the casters have producers who are constantly combing though a database about these players and feeding this information to that caster though an ear piece. They can give them up to date facts about the players, as well as what was seen in different shots and different camera angels. He let me see the inside camera once from their booth and hear the audio feed from the producers(This is what they use to help themselves get better and even have a breakdown session after each game). It may seem like a great gig from the outside, about the amount of work and stress that actually goes into calling a game well is incredible. Much respect.

Question: Why does time slow down in near death experiences?
Answer: This is a good starting point. 

_URL_0_

Short version, the material near the core of your brain controls sensory perception, reflexes, immediate survival based decision making.  

Material further out controls emotions, higher level thinking, etc. 

In a life or death situation, blood and vital fluid concentrates near the center.  Think of it like diverting power.  

The result can seem like heightened perception, better focus, minimized distractions.

Question: Structurally, how is a GPU different from a CPU?
Answer: Vast oversimplification, but you can think of a GPU like having thousands of weak cores while a CPU has a few powerful cores.

When you're rasterizing graphics, each pixel is independent of each other--a GPU can calculate thousands of pixels at the same time. 

But not all processes are this stateless. Oftentimes you can't proceed without knowing a previous step. In fact, most tasks are like this, and that's why CPUs are still more important. Only some tasks are suited for mass parallelization.

Question: How can the probabilities of all possible outcomes of an event not sum up to one? In other words, how can there exist a process for which unitarity doesn't apply?
Answer: >  However, the physicists who came up with the model postulated that locality and unitarity do not hold true at the quantum level.

No, that's not correct. They have a different mathematical formulation where unitarity and locality emerges from first principles. The end result is very much unitary

Question: Why (near) perpetual motion car is not possible.
Answer: Solar power is the only promising possibility, as you're taking "free" energy from the sun and converting it to useable power. But isn't very efficient yet, and the needed components add noticeable weight. Thus the charging rate of a car completely covered in solar panels still isn't enough to power the motors to move the car forward. It can be a net positive to add to other systems, but it ends up being a very small gain.

Alternators need rotation to make power - where does that rotation come from? If it's tied to the engine or wheels, then you're still gonna make less energy than the engines are consuming, plus adding drag to the engine, meaning it needs more power to move the car forward than it would without the alternators, so you end up with a net loss.

Same with wind power - the wind pushes on the blades to turn them, but that also pushes the entire car backwards, against the direction you want to go. The engine needs more energy to overcome this, giving a net loss.

TL;DR: Theory is nice, but in the real world efficiency, friction losses and heat losses mean you get less energy out in useable power than you put in to make the system work.

Question: Why, as an 18 yo in California, my parents need to sign a waiver allowing me to sign myself out of school or sign anything for myself.
Answer: because that's the contract between your school and your parents and you as a minor.  

as an 18yo, you can drop out of school, if you don't like that.

Question: what’s the difference between emigrate, immigrate, and migrate?
Answer: Migrate is general and just suggests moving from one region to another. Emigrate is to move your residence out of your country, and immigrate means to move your residence *into* a new country. So, if I move from Germany to France, I have emigrated from Germany, immigrated to France, and I have migrated from one country to another.

Question: Time flow in singularity.
Answer: It definitely isn't infinite mass.  It's infinite density, which is a critical difference.

The rest I'll leave to others who are more educated to comment.

Question: How do north koreans leave their country?
Answer: The show Vice did a documentary following a North Korean refugee who wanted to escape North Korea.  The first step was illegally crossing the border into China and meeting with someone who specializes in getting North Koreans out (kind of like a *coyote* who specializes in smuggling Mexicans into the U.S.).  These men were paid by a South Korean preacher who devotes his time to getting people out of North Korea.  Next, the defectors took a several-hour-long journey across China into Laos.  They are still not quite safe because the communist government of Laos does not recognize the refugee status of North Koreans and so would deport them back to their native country.  After hiding out for the day, at night the defector and her party crossed the Mekong river into Thailand, which does recognize North Korean defectors as refugees and allows them safe passage to South Korea.  Once in South Korea, the defectors go to a processing center that the SK government has established to teach defectors the basic skills needed to live in modern society.  The documentary mentioned that for young North Korean women, the journey has an added risk of the Chinese middlemen selling them into sexual slavery.

Question: Why do objects feel colder than the temperature of the air?
Answer: Heat transfers faster through conduction (touching it) than through convection (transfer through a fluid, in this case the air). The faster heat leaves your body, the colder you register it as. That is why it is colder in a windy place than a calm place of the same temperature. When it is windy you are in contact with more air in the same time, you lose more heat in the same amount of time, your body tells you that is colder.

Question: When people have 'high pain tolerance', do they feel actually feel less pain or do they just tolerate it better?
Answer: Pain is in the brain. There is a part of your brain that translates stimuli from nerves into pain. If you would take this part out, you wouldn't feel any pain at all. In fact, there are people who are born without a functioning pain center in their brain. They usually don't live very long because the don't learn to stay away from hazardous situations.

As with everything in the brain, how it works differs wildly between human beings and it also can be trained. When you're gradually exposed to higher doses of pain you can expand your tolerance. So that's why some people have a natural high tolerance, others have it trained. 

My experience as a physical therapist is that many people think they have a high tolerance for pain. But this also has to do with the fact that a majority of people think they are above average. Think about that ;)

Question: Why is it such a big deal that Apple has so much cash?
Answer: So, one part is because it's just a huge sum of cash....but let's go deeper

A public company's responsibility is to maximize shareholder value. The best way to measure that is growth in the stock price. How does a stock price grow...stuff like ROI, ROE and profits and such.

So the issue here is that that cash is doing nothing; it's just sitting in the bank and in risk free assets...meaning basically 0 return on investment (ROI).

The shareholders are saying, "Give us some of that cash through dividends so I can put it to work!" With the dividends, investors can invest in other securities to get some ROI. 

If Apple was constantly using this cash to generate ROI, the shareholders wouldn't care. The problem is that the money is just sitting there and not creating returns for shareholders

Personally, I am torn. High tech companies tend to hold a lot of cash but Apple is just going crazy. Tim Cook recently said there isn't a reason to have *this* much cash on hand. We'll see what happens.

Question: How come if I wake up in the middle of the night, I often feel sweaty and gross, but if I wake up in the morning, I almost always feel normal?
Answer: You're probably waking up in the middle of the night because you're sweaty and gross.

Question: the difference between Yiddish and Hebrew
Answer: Hebrew is the language of Jews in the Middle East and of Jewish religious texts, it's a semitic language close to Arabic and Aramaic. It had actually died out, before it was revived as the national language for the state of Israel. 

Yiddish, by contrast, is an amalgam of German and Hebrew (using Hebrew script most of the time, but as I understand way more German words/grammar than Hebrew).  It was the language spoken by Jews in Europe with ties to Germany and Eastern Europe, as well as England and France.  Jews tended to be socially and economically isolated for much of European history, and Yiddish was effectively a "ghetto" language that emerged from Hebrew being surrounded by all other languages, but Hebrew's speakers not being accepted enough by the speakers of those other languages to end up committing entirely to using the newer, local tongues.

Question: how the switch on the bottom of the rearviee mirror works.
Answer: There are two mirrors in a rearview mirror. That's why it's not super-thin. When you flip that switch you are moving one mirror out of the way and put the secondary mirror in place. The secondary mirror reflects less light and so doesn't blind you at night when someone has their brights on behind you.

To be a bit more technical it's one piece of glass with a wedge shape. The back of the wedge is very reflective (day mode) and the front of the glass is less so (night mode). Flipping the switch moves the back of the wedge out of line so it's no longer in your line of vision.

Question: What gives atoms their various properties?
Answer: Yes, broadly speaking. 

Atoms gain their properties due to their valence. Learning about this is basically most of the first semester of a college chemistry course, but the short version is:

Atoms are basically clouds of electrons surrounding a core of protons and neutrons. The clouds of electrons behave in a way that is random, but overall very predictable, and they try to form a pattern that resembles a shell of electrons composed of sets of four pairs to make an octet.

 Bigger atoms have many shells of eight, smaller ones may have only one (or fewer than one complete shell) but it's only the outermost shell that really matters for bonding and chemical properties. When two elements bond, they share an electron or two to fulfil their octets. 

Different atoms as you go down a row of the periodic table have different numbers of valience electrons in their outermost shell. These are what make atoms react differently. Lithium, sodium, potassium, etc, have one atom in their outermost valience shell - that means they want to bond very much with something that can fill their shell. If you put sodium in water, it rips the water apart, and causes an explosion as the oxygen and hydrogen heat up. 

Likewise, flourine, chlorine, iodine, etc, all have seven electrons in their outer shell - they want badly to fill with things with only one electron, like hydrogen. That's why these elements can make such powerful acids - it's very easy for them to steal a hydrogen from water. 

Carbon has four electons. It (and silicon, to a lesser degree) is the whore of the elemnts. It loves to bond with a lot of stuff becuase there's so many ways it can make pairs. Oxygen has six, so it loves to double bond (share two pairs of electrons) with carbon, or one each with hydrogen (to make water.)

Finally the nobel gasses come complete with eight already. That's why they hardly ever bond with *anything*. 


There's more to this explanation than just that - radioactivity, transition elements, metals, different levels of valence shells, different types of bonds, subatomic forces, resonance, etc, but that is basically an entire chem course worth of information. But valence electrons are the most important thing overall.

Question: How can Paper Lanterns be safe? Why don't they start fires when they land?
Answer: They do start fires. They're banned in 24 US states, according to the article below, because they're such a fire hazard. 

_URL_0_

Question: Someone commented on an askreddit thread that you can get drunk off of one shot by dipping your finger into it, and licking the alcohol off your finger over and over without actually picking it up and drinking it. How does this work, and is it legit?
Answer: You could consume all of the alcohol out of the glass, yes. Would it get you drunk? Not a single shot, no. They're full of shit.

Question: If I go without eating in the morning, waking up at 5 am and eating around 10:30 am I usually don't feel hungry. If I eat a banana or something after waking up, about 45 minutes later I feel like I haven't eaten in 3 days. Why is this?
Answer: Because eating causes your body to begin the digestive process, beginning before the food even enters your mouth. It starts with saliva production, and you gastric juice fills your stomach before the food is even there. If you eat something small, your body kicks into a digestive process, usually anticipating a larger meal, especially if it was the first one of the day.

Question: What is Cryptocurrency(e.g Bitcoin) mining?
Answer: What's happening? Basically, a computer is being used to perform a calculation, which gets more complex each time (each coin is harder to make than the last one). This is what keeps the value, it's a limited currency, there will only be so many bitcoins available.

People are slowly accumulating them. You put processing in to "make" a coin and it's now yours to use as you see fit. You may also join a "pool" of other miners. You share PC power, and get a proportional share of the value of any coins made.

Money is a concept, value for something. Merchants and people accept the value of these bitcoins, so they can be used for purchases as if they were legal tender.

Is it free? Essentially, yes, the software has no cost. The hardware to utilize it does have a cost, but many people already have something that would work (albeit, not well).

How long does it take? A long time. At this point, unless you have a server farm, you'll never get anything substantial from it. A standard computer might take days or weeks to mint a single coin.

Is expensive hardware needed? Not to do it, but it is needed if you want to make any sort of real profit. It only makes sense on a very large scale due to how complex the calculation has become over the years.

Question: How does reverse thrust on a jet engine work?
Answer: Most jet aircraft have "buckets". When stowed, these don't interfere with the engines at all. But when deployed, they form a barrier behind the rear of the engine, which directs the jet exhaust forwards, creating reverse thrust.

There's a very good picture of the buckets in their deployed position [here](_URL_0_).

Edit: I've explained how reverse thrust is created. Just noticed that you also said about it being used to reverse on the ground. As another reply has already said, it isn't. It's used on the runway after landing, to slow down. The reason it is not used for reversing is because a) it would blow dirt, stones, etc into the front of the engine, causing damage to the engine, and b) the powerful jet blowing at an airport terminal (if you were reversing out of a nose-in parking space) would likely damage the terminal building, especially if it has glass windows.

Question: Why are steel surfaces relatively inhospitable to bacteria and other germs whereas stuff like acrylic are not?
Answer: I believe it has to do with the surface and how porous it is/isn't.   Bacteria need tiny holes to hang out in (which also traps stuff they feed on), otherwise they get brushed away easily and there is less available 'food' for them.  Also some metals give off ions that apparently kill bacteria.   I know silver does, not sure about other metals.

Question: It is estimated that some sharks lose over 30,000 teeth in a lifetime - where does a shark obtain the levels of calcium necessary for such rapid tooth replacement?
Answer: Well they don't have bones to worry about.  We have a whole skeleton to upkeep, and we manage. But sharks eat a lot of things that have bones, and calcium in them, and what's more many calcium compounds can be dissolved in water, there are calcium ions just floating around the ocean, about 400mg/L of water.  They don't really need anything to get calcium, they're swimming in a solution of calcium among other salts.

Question: What's the matter with phi and fibonacci in nature?
Answer: With regard to plants; Vi Hart has an excellent three part video on when it occurs, how it happens, and why phi in some plants is "inevitable."
[part 1](_URL_2_)
[part 2](_URL_1_)
[part 3](_URL_0_)

In all the other cases; the phenomenon doesn't exist.  Or more clearly the only phenomenons are logical fallacies such as cherry picking and confirmation bias.

Question: How do scientists calculate the amount of calories in food?
Answer: They light it on fire! 

No seriously, a calorie is a unit of measurement that measures the amount of energy it takes to raise the temperature of water 1 degree. In order to measure that, they burn things below a beaker of water and see how long it takes to raise a degree (I believe it is specifically one ml of water, but  I could be mistaken.)

Question: Why, as a non-smoker, do I occasionally get the "man, a cigarette would be great right now" craving?
Answer: You've probably seen the relief on a smokers face after not having one for a while and your brain has subconciously associated tobacco smoke with relief.

But the truth is every time we light up we're only relieving our need for nicotine. The stress relief is entirely in our heads.

Question: Why can schools ban peanuts but not enforce manditory immunizations?
Answer: "Do this" is harder to enforce than "Don't do this"

Question: What exactly are reverse mortgages?
Answer: In a normal mortgage, you borrow a large sum of money from a lender to be delivered up-front and repaid by you over a number of years, and the money you borrow is delivered by the lender to the seller of the property as the property is being purchased, but the money is "held" and released only once the mortgage document is signed;   you receive a deed to the property,  which conveys your ownership,  and the  Mortgage  provides the lender a "priority claim"   of ownership of the property,  in case you fail to repay the loan.

With a normal Mortgage, over time, as you pay the loan properly, and do not fail to make payments ---  your lender's  "claim"  to the property is gradually reduced, until you own the property 100%.

Your property always has a "fair market value";  this is the price that a buyer would be expected to pay for your property --- if you decided to sell it.

The "fair market value"  varies over time and can be affected by many factors,  but  what's important to realize:   as the owner of the property, you control this value.

The "fair market value" which you control as owner MINUS the total amount of money of all Mortgage debts, and other lenders' claims to the property is called your Equity.

If you have no mortgages or debts on the property, then your equity is 100% of the fair market value;  you control this equity, therefore, you can offer up your property to secure a new debt,  and your property will serve as collateral for the eventual repayment of this debt.

A reverse mortgage is basically exactly the same thing as a normal mortgage,  except you already own the property  ---  if you have no debt on the property (which is pretty crucial),   then you can pledge your equity to a lender and sign a Mortgage document  providing the lender a claim on your property.

Instead of borrowing a "big sum of cash" all at once,  typically how the reverse mortgage arrangement is  structured --- you agree to receive a monthly payment from the lender  (instead of making a monthly payment to the lender).

In exchange,  the lender receives a claim to some of your equity over the property  in the sum of the payment the lender sent you PLUS  they will be due interest on the loan,  until either the loan is settled, or the property is transferred to the lender.

Reverse mortgage payments to you will cease once a certain percentage of the equity has been exhausted,  And:  this level will likely be at a conservative amount.

In most cases, no more than 50 to 65% of  the property's value will be paid out by the lender.

At this point, the mortgage still exists, but no more payments will be received from the bank,  and interest on the debt owed to the bank or other lender will continue to accrue.

The typical arrangement is that there can be no foreclosure, and interest will continue to accrue,  as long as the  person who has taken out the reverse mortgage continues to live on the property.

Following the death of the owner and spouse, or if the owners decide to move or sell the property,  the total debt including interest will be due to be immediately repaid in full as a big lump sum of cash to the bank or other lender, just as with a normal mortgage.

Question: Do most North Koreans truely believe that their leader is a deity?
Answer: Obviously some do, likely out in the boonies but North Korea isn't nearly as tightly controlled as the North Koreans or the media would have you believe. It's certainly quite bad but Vice is know to "hype" their stories up a bit to make them a bit more entertaining. 

The black market in North Korea is fairly large and the country is very dependent on it to function. This brings in many goods and information from outside the country which the North Korean authorities are largely forced to tolerate out of economic necessity. The average state worker is paid in the official rate and only makes in a month about enough to buy some cigarettes. Those workers make up the difference by working in the black markets buying and selling goods. That should give you some sense of the scale of those black markets. Organizations within North Korea have even begun advertising the black-market rate for goods in an attempt to attract investment.

Question: How were live television shows aired nationwide before the internet?
Answer: They were broadcast over the airwaves, like radio still is now.  

Or they were broadcast by satellite to local stations, who broadcast it over the airwaves.

We were able to do a lot without an internet.  Even invent the internet.

Question: Why do I get the urge to jump when looking off a cliff or any high object?
Answer: >  Imagine a person with high anxiety sensitivity. She leans over a ledge of the Grand Canyon. In super fast reaction to her physical sensation of anxiety, her survival instinct forces her away from the edge. Yet when she looks at the ledge, she sees it’s sturdy. There was never any danger. Her brain tries to process an answer to the question “Why did I back up if it was safe?” A logical answer is that she must have been tempted to jump.
 >  
 >  In other words, Hames explained, people misinterpret the instinctual safety signal, and conclude they must have felt an urge to leap. Hence the study’s title: “An Urge to Jump Affirms to Urge to Live.”

_URL_0_

Question: Why do couples so often experience a decrease in sex drive shortly after marriage?
Answer: There isn't one good answer for that because for one, it isn't the same with each couple and two because it doesn't necessarily always happen. 

One common reason though is simply time. A married couple will most likely spend their days working and by the time the day is done, sleep sounds like a much better idea than sex. 

Another reason is that after a while, a couple's sex life tends to become a little bit boring. When you first start having sex, you're both willing to try different positions and other stuff to please yourself and your partner. After a while, you figure out what works and it becomes more relaxed and not as exciting. 

Third, as you get older, your libido drops simply because that's how your body works.

But really, tons of married couples still have plenty of sex drive, but they often have to actively "spice things up" to keep their libidos up and continue to make sex exciting.

Question: Why cold water tastes better?
Answer: I don't think it has to do with the taste -- I think it has to do with the refreshment.

Humans (and all animals) don't drink water because it tastes good, but rather because we need it to survive and cool down when we begin to overheat.

Since cold water is so refreshing, it's more enjoyable to drink. When a drink is more enjoyable, one would automatically assume that it "tastes" better, but I don't think that's necessarily what's going on there.

Question: What is a transistor, and why was it's invention so revolutionary?
Answer: Transistors replaced vacuum tubes, which perform the same function: they both can take a small electrical current and use it to control a larger current. Both of them can be used as switches (in computers) to perform on- and off- operations (1's and 0's) or as amplifiers. Amplifiers are needed for radios, TV's and so on.

The big difference is that vacuum tubes are large, heavy and many need high voltages to operate while transistors are small and use low voltage. This allowed large, heavy bulky electronics to be miniaturized into small lightweight items like smartphones, PCs, and so on.

Question: If the FBI supercomputer would take centuries to crack a certain password, can't they build several replicas of it and then solve it faster with cluster processing?
Answer: First of all, all modern supercomputers are actually clusters of relatively slow processors. So they already do have a cluster.  
  
A properly set up 12 digit password using a standard English keyboard has 540,360,087,662,636,962,890,625 possible passwords (95^12).    
China's Tianhe-2 computer holds the worlds record for fastest super computer and does 33.86 quadrillion math calculations a second (they are called Floating Point Operations Per Second or FLOPS). So for the sake of simplicity lets say it checks 33.86 quadrillion passwords a second. It would take 3 months to break the password(on average you'll try half of the possible passwords before getting it).    
Thing is the cluster costs US$390 million and that's just buying it, not counting the cost of powering and maintaining it.  
  
So millions of dollars spent, and you get to break a total of 4 passwords every year.  
It's far cheaper to get a subpoena and threaten prosecution or just spy on the target, than it is to use super computers to break passwords.  
That or just ask google really nicely.

Question: If passwords are encrypted, why do I need to change my password on sites that use Cloudflare?
Answer: The term that's used is *hashed* rather than encrypted. You could argue that a hash is a form of encryption, but I think it's important to mention this because there is a difference - encryption is usually a two-way thing, you can encrypt it but you can also decrypt it to get your original text back. Hashing is one way - you can create a hash from a password, but you can never get the password back. The way that hashes work, on a practical level, is that when you log in to a website, it hashes the password you've just entered and compares it to the stored hash.

Now, being a one-way thing means that it's not possible to break the encryption and get the passwords out, but there's a few things that come into play now.

Best practice now involves *salting* the hashes, which I'll come onto in a second, but for a website that doesn't salt the hashes, what I might see is:

user1 5f4dcc3b5aa765d61d8327deb882cf99  
user2 2ab96390c7dbe3439de74d0c9b0b1767  
user3 a45da4b59a32dca94e2ffdd1d301c176  
user4 2ab96390c7dbe3439de74d0c9b0b1767

The first thing to note is that user2 and user4 have the same hash next to them. Why's that? Because they use the same password. Basically, if I work out user2's password, then I automatically know user4's, and anyone else in the same file.

user1's hash is interesting, too - because you can Google is, and it'll tell you that user1 has simply set their password to *password*.

You can find 2 & 4 on Google too, because they've also used a common password. In fact, you can find useful things like tables full of pre-computed hashes that you can compare against a password database, meaning that you can find the users with that password fairly easily.

So, that's the low-hanging fruit. Once a hacker has got the easy stuff out of the way with pre-computed hashes they can try other techniques. You can try a dictionary based attack, where you start using words from the dictionary, start adding characters to the end and so on - so you might just start your computer calculating the hash of Ocelot, then Ocelot1, Ocelot2 and so on, looking in the file each time to see if the password matches anybody. And that takes a long time, but at least if you've got access to the password database the risk of being caught or locked out while you're doing it is far less than if you had to do it on a live system.

Now, I mentioned salted hashes - what you do with a salted hash is to mix the password up with something else before you hash it. For instance, if I stick the username on the end of each of the passwords that I used above, I get the following salted hashes:

user1 ddc5fba638b1990d84685c666a973de1  
user2 26807a25bcaa4e907830debafa8e308a  
user3 4bce4ae8996c0fd7352997975a3d5019  
user4 f126beac703085c5fe82ed60d2139c3e  

These have the same passwords as before, but with the benefit that knowing what one user's password is doesn't allow me to work out the others. Users 2  &  4 still have the same password as each other, but I'll never be able to find it in any list of precomputed hashes, and even if I do manage to work it out through brute force, I won't be able to figure out which other users have the same password.

This won't stop dictionary-based attacks, but it will slow them down because they won't be able to find the same hash used in multiple places.

The user that I've not mentioned here is number 3. They've used a completely random, 16 character password with upper case, lower case, numbers and symbols. According to one site that I checked on, it would take a computer about 2 billion years to get the right combination through brute force.

Now, if you find that your details have been compromised, it's important to think not only of your password on the compromised site, but on other sites. Have you reused it? A lot of people do, and there's a reasonable chance for some people that their e-mail password might be the same as the Reddit password and so on, so it's vital that you go and change the password if it's reused.

I'll mention one final thing, which is that I used online tools to create the example hashes and also work out how secure the random password is. Never, ever, ever put your password into a site other than the one its intended for. Sites that tell you how secure your password is might be benign, or they might be using it for nefarious purposes. I only used fictional passwords in my examples, there's no way I'd put my real password into any of those sites.

Question: What causes people’s voices to sound funny when they inhale helium?
Answer: We are accustomed to hearing vocal cords vibrate in ***air***.

Helium is lighter than air (that's why helium balloons float).  
When vocal cords are vibrating in helium, they can vibrate faster, resulting in a higher pitch, because they vocal cords aren't pushing against the heavy air.

Similarly, if a person inhales something *heavier* than air (like sodium hexafluoride) their voice sounds *lower*.

Question: Why places like fast-food chains support either Coke or Pepsi, but not both.
Answer: With big chains Coke or Pepsi will try to get an exclusive contract, and they'll make an offer to sell really cheaply. IIRC Disneyworld gets theirs for free because it's such a big advertisement to have your product all over Disney.

Question: Why can women have multiple orgasms while men can only have one?
Answer: Wow, I think these comments are way off the mark. Do you guys think that cavemen were running trains on the cavewomen? And "The strongest sperm" != The strongest offspring, considering the first sperm to reach the egg don't fertilize it as they die breaking down the egg wall.  Also, human females are better with a single partner, that way paternity can be verified and it's more likely the male will stay to support his own offspring.

If a female can only orgasm once, they might do it before the male has finished and be done with intercourse. The female isn't getting pregnant then, so it is beneficial that females have no refractory period.

If a male orgasms and keeps going, he has a good chance of scraping out his own sperm (the shape of the tip of the penis was designed to do this to other male's sperm). But once he orgasms, his seed his in there and he can pack up.

Question: Why do some people need to get up in the night and use the bathroom? Isn't that slowed down during sleep?
Answer: "Slowed down" is not the same as "turned off".

There are many reasons, from drinking fluids too close to bedtime to actual medical conditions.

Just like when you are awake, though, there is only so much your body can hold until it is time to relieve one's self.  If it happens in the middle of the night, it can be enough of an irritant to wake you up and tell you to go...

Question: What is happening when my computer, or phone, says I'm connected to the Internet, but it won't load any internet pages?
Answer: Depends on what device and how they detect "the internet". Typically, it's done via a simple low bandwidth connection to some sort of "home" server. It can even be as simple as a ping.

Now, remember how I said it's low bandwidth? That means that it uses a really small connection. Snapchat and it's ilk take up  significantly more.

Additionally, there can be such a thing as "packet loss". Because the internet checker is so low bandwidth, this packet loss affects it much much less -- if at all. 

However, when you use more bandwidth, packet loss starts to add up significantly.

Question: Soo, if we are flying around the sun flying around the solar system, flying around the galaxy...How are the stars we see at night in the same predictable places?
Answer: Because the huge size of space means that even if things are moving quickly (hundreds of kilometers per second), they don't change position in the sky very much. Let's do some quick example calculations.

First, you mention that we're flying around the Sun. That's true, we're moving at about 30 km/s around the Sun. But since we're going in a circular orbit around the Sun, we don't actually travel that far from where we started (relative to the Sun). The furthest we go is to the opposite side of the circle from where we are now, so twice the distance from the Earth to the Sun, or about 300 million kilometers.

Now, for reference, the nearest stars are about 4 lightyears away, which is about 37 trillion kilometers (really far!). If you use a bit of trigonometry (I'll spare the details, this is ELI5), you can estimate how far on the sky that star appears to move because of us orbiting around the Sun. The answer is about 0.4 thousandths of a degree. For reference, the Moon is about half a degree across as we see it in the sky, so the change in position is about a thousand times smaller than the Moon. And that's for the **nearest** stars! A star 10 times farther away will move 10 times less on the sky.

So that's the shift caused by Earth's motion around the Sun. What about the motion of the Sun? The Sun moves around the Galaxy at about 200 kilometers per second, which is 7 times faster than the Earth's orbital speed! But! Most of the stars around us are also moving around the Galaxy in a similar way, in the same general direction, so the velocity between us and the nearby stars is not nearly so high. Actually, it turns out that the relative movement of stars nearby the Sun is also about 30 kilometers per second, give or take a bit. So the change in position is about the same: less than a thousandth of a degree per year, for the nearest stars! There's no way that a human eye can detect that kind of difference. So it would take thousands of years for a star to appear to move about 1 degree (which, remember, is only twice the apparent size of the Moon in the sky). And that's about the amount of movement that you'd need to be able to pick it out with your eye.

Professional astronomers are really good at measuring the positions of stars: these days we can measure accurately even shifts as small as a millionth of a degree, or even less in some cases. So we can measure the change in position of stars over the course of several years, and we can use these measurements to tell us things like the star's velocity, how far away it is, if it's part of a binary star system (two stars orbiting each other), and other cool things.

Question: If antibacterial soaps are banned, what is ‘hand soap’ actually doing?
Answer: You've got a field filled with rabbits, and they're eating your crops.

Antibacterial agents and hand sanitizers are like poisoning the rabbits.  The problem is that dead rabbit bodies are still strewn about, and some of the rabbits survive the poisoning, and their kids will also be good at surviving poisoning.  And rabbits hold a grudge.

Scrubbing your hands with soap is like flooding the rabbit holes, and physically washing them off of your field.  The advantage is that rabbits don't blame you for floods, and their kids don't grow up flood-resistant.

That is the strangest analogy I've ever thought of.

Question: why is human excrement brown?
Answer: There are a number of reason it's brown but the biggest contributor would be the presence of bilirubin. Bilirubin is a chemical that comes out of dead red blood cells. Basically, your poo includes expired blood, and that's brown.

Question: Why does sunlight make it difficult to view our phone screens?
Answer: Because the sun is brighter. The little light particles from the sun beat the phone’s light particles and so you see what the sun’s light reflects, not what the phone’s light projects

Question: Why are some console versions of PC games not given the same treatment by the developers in terms of updates, patching, and DLC (i.e. Team Fortress 2 and Diablo 3)?
Answer: Every update, patch and DLC has to go through certification and quality assurance on consoles. That process takes not only time, but money as well. Depending on much your particular audience is skewed towards PC, it is understandable that some developers will prioritize putting it up on that platform first, and then rolling it out on consoles after a while, if at all.

Question: Why do I get so lovey-dovey when I'm tired?
Answer: Depends on what you mean by tired and lovey-dovey but probably due to the happy chemicals your brain releases when you're about to fall asleep. Dopamine and such.

Question: When you're reviewing your research, how the hell do you find the null hypothesis?
Answer: The nullhypothesis is a statistical question. 

It is the question you ask in order to disprove your hypothesis.

If you cannot disprove it with the data you collect, then the hypothesis must be correct.

(Well, most likely correct.)

Question: Why road construction crews don't re-pave bridges?
Answer: Because the bridges are likely made of concrete and the crews are re-laying asphalt.  They are two different materials with different maintenance cycles.

Question: When games on Steam go on sale dirt cheap, who makes the money, and how do they make profit?
Answer: Steam games have no physical product.  This means that, once the cost of the development team is covered, there are no further expenses (simple situation, no multiplayer servers, etc).  It also means that there is no difference in the cost of producing 500 copies vs producing 1,000 copies.

Game is priced at $50, and sells 500 copies.  Total income is $50*500 = $25,000.

Game is priced at $20.  It goes onto the "on sale games", and the "$20 and under".  This means more impulse buyers, and it sells 1,000 copies.  $20 * 1,000 = $20,000.  Not quite as good, but still decent.

Now, it hits the $10 mark.  Again, it's listed in the sale and the $10 and under category.  More casual gamers will see it.  Say 3,000 people decide to buy it.  $10 * 3,000 = $30,000, which is more profit than the full-price sales.

These specific numbers were pulled out of my ass while I'm at the computer.  Real companies have economists and researchers who have real-world data, and use it to determine an optimum price that allows for the most profit to be made.

Question: Dependent and Independent variable.
Answer: The dependent variable is what you are measuring (e.g. number of correct answers on a test).

The independent variable is what you are manipulating (or think of it like groups you are categorising people into e.g. gender (male/female), age (teenagers, older adults))

This usually leads to a hypothesis such as "There will be an effect of the IV on the DV".

Question: Animal House - ELI5
Answer: You sure you're not talking about Animal Farm?

Question: How are operating systems created?
Answer: Well, OSes like most software has evolved over time. They started out very simply and over time more and more features got added. Eventually they get to a point where all the new features make the system run too slowly, so that is when they do a larger rewrite, and they may redesign most of the OS from the ground up or they may use pieces from the last version. For example, between Windows XP and Win 7, there has been large rewrites to most of the operating system, but between Windows Vista and Windows 7, they reused some portions of Vista. 

If you are wondering how people go about designing and building a new OS, then you have to understand what an OS does and how it interacts with the rest of the computer system. It's pretty hard to describe it ELI5, as OSes are a pretty advanced topic. I'll try to explain some of it and not get too long winded about it. 

***How are operating systems coded?***

Like most software, an OS is written in source code by programmers and software engineers. The source code is broken down into many files, so that small pieces of the system can be written separately. The source code is then run through a Compiler, which turns it into a machine readable format and is then packaged into an installer application. The installer is responsible for putting all of the compiled code in the correct locations in memory so that the OS can start. 

***How does an operating system start up on a computer?***

When you first turn your computer on, its a pretty dumb machine, its built so it will be able to start with a minimum of hardware attached. The first part that controls your computer is the firmware, often called a BIOS (Basic Input Output System). The BIOS is responsible for making sure all of the necessary pieces are plugged in (processor, RAM memory, hard drive, and the many components built into the motherboard), and it is also responsible for displaying the basic start up info on your monitor and taking input from your keyboard in case you want to go into the BIOS setup (or setup for some other component). The BIOS assigns Addresses/Names to all the components in your computer, it is basically making a map of all of your hardware, later the BIOS will give this map of hardware to the OS so that the OS will know how to access and use all the different components. All of this start up stuff is programmed into the flash memory of the BIOS chip on your motherboard, it's stored on the motherboard and not on a hard drive or in the RAM because all of these other memory locations might be removed from the computer, the basic function of turning on is stored on the motherboard since without that your computer has no backbone and can't function anyways. After the BIOS is done setting up, it has a setting stored in it (that you can change) that tells it where to look for an operating system, it might first look for any USB drives, then CD/DVD, and then a list of hard drives to check (since your computer might have more than one hard drive). If it looks on a hard drive, it looks in a part of the drive called the Boot Sector, which is an area set aside for booting OSes. In the Boot Sector (which is setup by the OS installer) there will be a pointer telling the computer where the actual Boot Loader is for the operating system. So once your BIOS finds the right Boot Sector, it learns where the Boot Loader is for Win 7 (or whatever OS you have). The Boot Loader is a special program that starts the OS, it takes the hardware map from the BIOS and turns it into something the OS can use, it also handles the loading of the Kernel and anything that needs to be in RAM for the OS to start. Once the Boot Loader is done, everything is setup, turned on, and running on your computer how the OS expects it to be, so the Boot Loader passes control over to the OS Kernel and you are displayed your login prompt. 

***What does an operating system do?***

The OS is the main backbone program that runs on your computer. It's job is to be the boss of all the other programs you want to run. In order to have many programs running at the same time, it is important to manage what each program is allowed to do and when it is allowed to do it. The OS is responsible for assigning RAM to programs to use, when more RAM is in use than you have physically in your system, the OS is responsible for moving some of the data in RAM into a cache on the Hard drive (called swap space, or a page file). This allows more programs to be running then could fit in the physical memory for your computer. Your computer probably has multiple processing cores, each core can also handle running multiple things at the same time by switching between tasks very quickly, overall processors are very complex and it is the OSes responsibility to manage what program is running where, how long it gets to use the processor and what sorts of things it is allowed to do with the processor. So from your programs perspective, the OS gives it memory when it needs it, schedules it to run on the processor (without the program knowing about it), gives it access to the display for showing graphics, to the sound system for playing sounds, and whenever you touch your keyboard/mouse/gamepad the OS sends signals to the programs/games that are interested so that they know the buttons have been pushed. From the user's perspective (yours) the OS is where you start all of your other programs/games, its how you end programs that aren't stopping on their own, and how you switch between programs since you probably want to use more than one at a time. The OS is also responsible for a lot of security things, it makes sure that programs aren't messing around with the memory that is assigned to other programs (a lot of old hacks/viruses did this), it also allows you to limit which programs can access certain parts of your hard drive, or send information over the internet connection, and the OS tries to make it so that only the programs you choose to install get installed (although malware still likes to sneak in). 

So, to answer your question about how OSes are created... Basically some teams of smart people look at all of these responsibilities (and the many more subtle ones that I skipped or don't know about), they look at how the OS is going to start on the system and how it can use the system while it is running and then they design all of the needed pieces.

Question: how did vanilla become the "generic" flavor
Answer: I'm just guessing, but I'd think that it's because Vanilla is such a strong flavour you only need a little bit of it, and because of that it doesn't impart much of a color to the food.

Look at ice Neapolitan ice cream....it's got pink strawberry, brown chocolate and white vanilla.  
A lot of vanilla flavoured things are white (probably because food companies choose not to add food coloring).

But as a result of vanilla flavoured things looking white, it is associated with being 'plain'.  And for some reason, people started using the word vanilla to describe plain or regular things.

The more you think about it, the less sense it makes.  Vanilla is actually a pretty complex flavour and is anything but plain.

Question: Why are cans for canned goods not square?
Answer: Cans are round because it maximizes the volume per amount of metal used and because being round makes them stronger than cubes.

Question: Why cross platform gaming isnt a thing. Like pc to xbox or ps4 multiplayer. Can this even on the smallest chance be possible?
Answer: For a lot of games, the controlls are just different between a gamepad and a mouse+keyboard setup. This is extremely noticable with strategy games shooters, but also comes into play with, for example, 3rd person action games. This means that it is very dificult to have a game that is exactly balanced between the different input sets and it's generally not a good idea to design a game in which half of your player base is inherently handicapped.

Question: Why does the north star never move but all the other stars do?
Answer: The others appear to move because the earth is spinning on its axis. Directly above either of the poles of that axis, a star will appear to barely move at all, but other stars will trace circles around it through the night. 

You can take some cool long exposure photographs by pointing your camera at celestial north and waiting. Stars will smear out into concentric circles around celestial north.

Question: What makes something a vegetable?
Answer: A vegetable is defined as the edible part of a plant, unless that part has a narrower and more specific definition, like say a fruit.

You can tell if your vegetable is a fruit by whether it contains seeds or not.

Spinach and lettuce are vegetables, but your gourd or squash is a fruit.

Question: How can we so distinctly remember things that never actually happened?
Answer: It is possible to vividly imagine something and then simply re-categorize that mental image as a memory rather than something you imagined.  The act of remembering it works just the same.  You can see what it looks like, hear the sounds or voices, and so forth.  You just have attached a wrong category to it.

Question: Why do large explosions result in a mushroom cloud?
Answer: [Wikipedia says](_URL_0_):

 >  Mushroom clouds result from the sudden formation of a large volume of lower-density gases at any altitude, causing a Rayleigh–Taylor instability. The buoyant mass of gas rises rapidly, resulting in turbulent vortices curling downward around its edges, forming a temporary vortex ring that draws up a central column, possibly with smoke, debris, or/and condensed water vapor to form the "mushroom stem". 

So in ELI5-terms: the hot gas resulting from the explosion creates an updraft which pulls debris/dust from the ground up and forms a vortext at the top.

Check this diagram, because [images are better than words](_URL_1_)

Question: why isn't there more footage on the Internet of US soldiers in close combat (e.g. clearing buildings) situations?
Answer: When you are in close combat, you are at immediate risk of being killed. You have better things to do then screw around with a camera.

Now that cameras are very very small and wearable, and have longer battery life, this kind of footage will become more common.

A separate issue is that many military organizations prohibit sharing pictures or video taken during combat until it is approved by senior command. There is a strong desire to keep operational details secret, and to protect the identities of the people involved in case they are captured later.

Question: how come some people have long, pointy canine teeth, which are longer than their regular teeth; and some people have flat canines the same length as the rest of their teeth?
Answer: How long your teeth are based on a few things. Mainly its because of the genes (traits) you inherit from your parents and their parents before them. Shapes and size of teeth are different in people from different races which is also a trait thing. Pointy-ness of your teeth depends on how much you use them. The more you use them the more they wear out despite being quite strong. This dulls the point and can make them flatter. 

Canines are generally (especially upper canines) large, long and pointy because of the way they have been used by all the animals that have them. Over time they have become what they are to tear and hold onto things (like lions hunting deer). Sometimes they can appear longer if the tooth opposite the canine is missing. Teeth are always moving and growing into the mouth but things that come in the way stop them. If the opposite tooth is gone then usually nothing is stopping the canine from growing longer.

Question: Why does everyone hate comcast?
Answer: They stand against innovation by working in what is essentially a monopoly. They have outrageously high prices for outrageously low-quality products. Other countries have internet that is 5-6 times faster than Comcast for half the price. Why is Comcast able to do this? Because they have 0 competition. 

Basically, they are able to do whatever anti-consumer policies they want because there's no other company to give them competition. Customers *have* to deal with it in most cases. This ends up with them raising prices, adding fees, having terrible customer support, having a low-quality product, and overall halting the innovation and expansion that the internet provides. 

TL;DR Their company policy isn't: "You'll want buy our product because it's the best available" It's: "You'll have to buy our product because it's the only one available.

Question: Why does amazing art, in whatever form, have such ability to inspire, motivate and evoke such strong emotion?
Answer: Hi. Art grad here. Let's begin.

First off, art is subjective. Now there are things such as the Frozen movie that is loved by most, and that is because the general population of the targeted audience enjoys similar qualities in things. What I'm saying here is that not all art will have the same effects on everyone.

About art that might have those effects on someone. There are things in art that artists use to specifically and intentionally activate things such as motivation, emotion, and inspiration. In color theory, there are various colors that are often used to do this. Red can mean things such as hot, fire, hell, burning, and love. Blue can mean the opposite of red, such as cool, water, and sky. These colors can mean these things because on a deeper level, things in life are these colors and we have grown up with that reference. On the psychological level, those feelings are established in connection with the colors.

Outside of color theory, but in the same way, artists utilize things such as the angle of a line, blurring, object placement, scene composition, and other elements because we know how things visually connect with psychology.

Question: Why won't printing more money solve economic problems?
Answer: Back in the Nixon Administration, all currency was based on the gold standard. This meant that you could take a $1 American bill and exchange it for gold at a federal reserve bank. Because of this, a crisis arose in the seventies because foreign countries would collect American money and exchange it for gold. As the U.S. gold deposits depleted, the value of the dollar went down because less gold backed up the bill.

In response to this crisis, Nixon took the dollar off the gold standard and U.S. currency is backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government. Basically, because our government has stability, our currency has value. 

Now while this may seem a silly idea, it's the status quo, many nations use this system, so everything is hunky dory. Because some people disagree with this system, it's a motivation for people to buy gold and silver commodities. 

To respond to your original question, think if things this way; the holographic Charizard Pokémon card was valuable because there were not very many circulated. But if everyone had a holographic Charizard card, then it'd be like having a regular Pikàchu card. So if more money is printed, it's not as valuable. 

As currency loses value, we call this inflation. With inflation, the cost if everything rises and if wages don't keep up with price increases then the people become poor.

Question: if putting dogs to sleep is such a widely accepted process, why is human euthanization so controversial?
Answer: >  I understand that there's a difference between dogs and humans.

If you understand this then why are you still asking this lol? In the most formal way possible, the answer to your question is that society doesn't consider dogs to be legal persons entitled to rights while it does consider humans that way.

Question: Why do people on reality survivalist shows bring firestarters instead of a lighter? It seams that a disposable lighter would work much easier and last more than the 30 or so days that they are in the wild.
Answer: Because if they wanted to do things the easy way they wouldn't be on a survivalist show in the first place.

Question: Why do restaurants have so much trouble splitting checks?
Answer: Splitting a check in half, like a 50/50 charge on each card is not too hard. 

When three couples split at the end, though, the server has to go back to the restaurant's order system and basically recreate 3 separate checks from scratch, voiding and reentering all the food they already input while sending a separate message to the kitchen NOT to prepare it. There's also the act of figuring out which items are for whom and how they'll be paid.  Imagine ringing up a family's groceries and then at the end, they say "can you take all the meat, dairy, and the coffee and put it on this card, then take all the produce and bread and put it on this card, then put the snacks and cleaning supplies on this other card?"

Most servers are running multiple tables, and even with a list of everything ordered they may not remember exactly who got what. 

EDIT: depending on the software of the order station, this can be easier or more difficult. It usually depends on the size of the restaurant and how much money the owner is willing to invest in the order system. Smaller restaurants that use paper tickets only and ring you up at the end, it's probably easier. Larger restaurants with multiple order stations spread out over the entire area all talk to an order screen in the kitchen but also double as a register for charging cards, printing receipts, etc. Even the most advanced order system will have you "click and drag" or "copy/paste" orders to create separate checks. This can be time consuming. Add the fact that these order stations need to be used to input orders as well by multiple servers and it's easy to understand why splitting checks can be a problem. Imagine splitting the check four ways for a party of 10 who ordered multiple drinks and entrees but also wanted to split the cost of two different appetizers four ways, all the time your coworkers are lining up behind you to input THEIR tables' orders. 

Source: waited tables in college.

Question: How do speakers of Japanese, Chinese and other languages with pictographic writing systems organise their dictionaries?
Answer: Japanese does have a common way of ordering their sounds. It is the order they use for their hirigana (Ka, ki, ku, ke, ko.) So some dictionaries get ordered in that way. (well, Japanese - english dictionaries do, at least).

Then another way to order them would be by kanji radical. Kanji are made up of several reoccurring pieces called radicals. So if you would come across an unknown kanji, you could use a kanji dictionary and start looking up things on a radical base. Radicals, as far as I know, are ordered by stroke order, from least strokes to most strokes

Question: We have vitamin A , B, C, D, E and K but not F, G, H, I and J. Why?
Answer: Vitamins A through E were named alphabetically. Vitamin K was discovered later and is essential in coagulation.  But when they name it they spelled it koagulation.

Question: Why does exercise such as running or cycling feel much more strenuous during the first couple of minutes?
Answer: Blood is constantly pumped all around our body to supply oxygen to all our muscles. In the case of running and cycling, we predominantly use our legs, but seeing as though we still have a regular blood circulation, our muscles find it difficult to work comfortably due to the lack of oxygen for the task they are performing. So, our body makes the decision to divert more blood towards those specific working muscles through the contraction and dilation of the blood vessels.

This is why people tend to do a "warm up" before going on a run or cycle as it helps raise the heart rate to a level where your body would be comfortable performing strenuous tasks

Question: Why do I feel like I'm going to vomit when calling a stranger on the phone?
Answer: While I am not a doctor, not your doctor, and this is not medical advice, it sounds very much like you are experiencing a panic attack, possibly brougt on by social anxiety.

The same thing happens to me, on the phone.

You might wish to seek treatment.

Question: How is colour and temperature related when something is burning? Also, why does the Sun appear white?
Answer: The purple may be an artifact. On some digital cameras, infrared shows up as purple. The blue filter lets some red through. I use the selfie cam on my iPhone 6 to test IR remote controls. The main cam does not do that.

Question: Why were people shown as having pure white skin in ancient asian portraits?
Answer: Pale skin was in China, as in Europe at one time, a symbol of the upper class--you cannot avoid being tanned if you perform outdoor labor. It's long been represented in art, dolls and make-up fashions as a beauty ideal.

Question: How does a ponzi scheme work? I'm 5 years old.
Answer: #1. you borrow lots of money, and promise to pay it back at huge interest rates over a long period of time.

#2. you live like a king spending money on whatever you like until the money runs out.

#3. you borrow even more money to pay off the original loans.

#4. repeat this until china stops lending you money.

Question: How did BBC get the seemingly impossible footage for David Attenboroughs Life series?
Answer: Many many many hours of waiting. You can watch documentaries on how they film those documentaries. It involves cameramen being out in the field for months, being bored out of their minds while waiting for that opportunity to get that perfect shot.

Question: What is physically different about a hard drive with a 500 GB capacity versus a hard drive with a 1 TB capacity? Do the hard drives cost the same amount to produce?
Answer: Here's an analogy that a five year old might understand.

Imagine you have a piece of paper. You get your crayon and divide the paper up into squares. In each square you can write a limited amount of information (for this example, let's say one letter), [like this](_URL_0_). If you tried to write any more information in each square, it would be unreadable because the crayon is too thick to write smaller letters.

You can make more storage space by creating a book using more than one sheet of paper. The extra paper costs more money compared to using a single sheet. Another way to make more space is to replace your crayon with something smaller, and more expensive, like a pen. You [can see](_URL_1_) that more information would fit on the sheet compared to when you were using a crayon.

Once you've made your large storage device using multiple sheets of paper and a pen, you might want to make artificially smaller sizes (read about price discrimination for more on why you might want to do this). You can do this by removing some of the sheets, or by painting over some of your squares [like this](_URL_2_).

To get back to your original question: The physical differences are different numbers of platters (the sheets of paper in the analogy), and different density on each platter (the different writing sizes in the analogy). Whether they cost the same depends on how a manufacturer decides to produce their different sizes. If they use fewer platters, it might cost less to make a smaller drive. If there is no physical difference and they just disable part of the drive for their smaller capacity drives (painting over squares in the analogy), then all sizes will cost the same to produce.

Question: why do I have the urge to go to the bathroom when I get nervous before an exam/big event?
Answer: I could be wrong but I believe it has to do with Stress levels and adrenaline releases. believe it or not Humans are actually getting that flight or fight response to things it wasn't necessarily intended for. We don't have to run from a pack of Wolves or Bear like our evolutionary ancestors but now we're getting it for school related exam stress, or football games, or stuck in traffic. even though we aren't really in any physical danger. Now where the urge to pee comes in I believe is because when you're stressing about an upcoming exam/event your brain signals for you to deal with this now before the event. because in actuality adrenaline can make you suppress those urges, when you're running/fighting for your life adrenaline can turn off the feeling of temperature, bodily function urges like peeing or hunger. because your need to escape or survive is more important than peeing. It's possibly a unique new trait to the types stress we're dealing with now. the foresight we have to a high stress situation lets our body prepare by signaling you to remove waste before the event will happen. Another contributor can be the feeling of nervousness, since you're coming closer and closer to the event your brain's ability to focus might not be so good, it can no longer suppress those urges since you're thinking about 100 things at once, add on top of that the possibility that you've been suppressing or oblivious to the urge for who knows how long because you've been focusing on studying, practicing etc. to notice you need to go

Question: How to calculate Hamming Code
Answer: adapted from wikipedia

1. Number the bits starting from 1: bit 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, etc.
2. Your parity bits are the ones in position 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, etc
4. All other bit positions are data bits.
5. Each data bit is included in a unique set of 2 or more parity bits, as determined by the binary form of its bit position.  

Let's see if the data bit in 37th position is correct.  37 in binary is 100101, so the 37th bit has parity bits at 32, 4, and 1.

If the first bit is 0, 4th bit is 0, 32nd bit is 0, then you'd expect the 37th bit to be 0 (for even parity).  If the 37th bit is 1 then you know it's an error and you can correct it.

Same thing for the 103040203th bit.  You find all it's parity bits and if they display an odd number of 1s then 103040203 needs to be 1 for even parity.  If the parity bits show an even number of 1s then 103040203 needs to be a 0 for even parity.

Question: How Pirate bay can be so openly public and not be shut down.
Answer: They keep getting shut down. When they are shut down, they start the website back up again in a different country.

They've been in a lot of countries now.

Question: What does "frozen assets" mean?
Answer: Imagine you have a big stack of quarters and toys split between piggy banks and toy shelves in each of your friends houses.  You want to trade them all for a dirt bike, but mum says no.  She tells all your friends to not let you into their rooms.

In your example, the quarters are Millions, the toys are military equipment and instead of a dirt bike, you want to equip an army to massacre people and/or steal your country's wealth for personal gain.

Question: In movie scenes where a kidnapper asks for ransom money, why do they ask for non sequential bills? (Extra Credit: What are "Marked Bills"?)
Answer: Because marked money can be tracked, sequential bills can be tracked. 

In the case of the Lindbergh baby they wrote down the serial numbers of the bills and used them to track down the kidnapper/killer. 

So lets say you kidnap someone and they pay the ransom. They keep an eye out for the bills they marked and notice them at a McDonalds, a Walmart and a Carwash. They know the area you've been in and now they can narrow it down to people who have been at these three locations in a specific time frame.

Question: Why do we still change clocks to Daylight Saving Time (DST) and back, when apparently, most people hate it? If most of us prefer a single time throughout the year - what are the obstacles to making this happen?
Answer: > Nobody goes around saying "Yay! I get to change my clocks! This is the best day since spring!" But that doesn't mean that most people hate it.

Pretty much everybody says that when you get that extra hour to sleep.

Question: How can a modern ship sail into a known storm/hurricane?
Answer: Not a sea captain, but at least two things here:

The ships today have been built to handle huge storms, so they are able to go through them without too many issues that would compromise seaworthiness of the ship. But these storms are also so large usually that it isn't as feasible for a slow ship to get around a storm as it might be for an airplane.

Money is the second thing. It will cost the cargo steamship line money from losing time if they do navigate around the storm. It could add an extra day or so to their schedule which delays everything after. The more delays you have, the fewer trips you can make with the ship, the less cargo you can charge for. I would imagine a cruise line would also avoid refunding money at any cost. They have to order food for a week and can't afford for it to just sit around in port while they wait out a storm. They'd be motivated to get people out on their cruise even if it means everyone is miserable.

Question: Why is there a difference between girl bikes and guy bikes?
Answer: In the early part of the bicycle, women sill wore dresses and the lowering of the top frame bar was to allow the wearing of a dress.

Question: What is happening in our muscles when we feel the urge to exercise?
Answer: Personally, it's stress that causes that irritability/restlessness. Cortisol keeps your body in a continued mode of being alert and ready to fight/run. Exercise lowers cortisol levels, eliminating stress and causes your body to relax the tension it has built up. Stress usually means that your body doesn't feel comfortable with your current situation, unsure if you are safe and/or are able to relax. Unfamiliar situations, sudden life changes, daunting work, sleep deprivation, and poor diet can increase stress levels. Exercise lowers stress levels and promotes relaxation. 

(Exercise lowers circulating cortisol levels)
[Source](_URL_0_)

Question: Why was "Smells Like Teen Spirit" considered such a revolutionary song? And what's so special about Kurt Cobain?
Answer: Nirvana gets a lot of the credit for starting the "grunge" movement. What makes smells like teen spirit so different is it's grunge sound and lyrical content. This was the first mainstream song to sort of glorify angsty, awkward teenagers and give them a coherent voice. It probably rings less with you because so much music has been heavily influenced by it. As far as his legacy is concerned, as one of the pillars of grunge music he has had a major impact on the last 20 or so years of rock music, most specifically alt/college rock.

Question: What is the significance of the recent French presidential election?
Answer: Over the last couple years, we have seen a populist trend among voters. People are voting for stricter immigration restrictions, dissolving the EU, adopting a nationalistic approach to governing, among other decision-making policies that would be consistent with the alt-right conservatives in America, or the pro-Brexit voters in the UK.

There was a lot of interest in the French election, since there was a lot of ideological shift in that particular nation among the citizens. This election would determine if the recent trend of alt-right politics was gaining momentum, or if it was starting to recede.

Considering the substantial margin of Macron's victory, this election signifies that the conservative upswing in the last couple years is receding. This is good news for those in the United States hoping that the 2018 election carries on this receding popularity of alt-right ideologue, and allows the Democrats to gain enough seats to regain a majority in the House.

It also removes a potentially helpful collaborator for Trump and Russia in a very influential European nation. Under Macron, France isn't going to be so easy to bend to Trump's and Putin's whims.

It is also good news for people in the UK who initially opposed the Brexit decision. Macron is strongly in favor of maintaining the European Union, and will help ensure it remains together (and make efforts to improve upon it) so that if the UK makes another vote to return to the EU, it'll still be there and still be worth returning to.

Question: Langrange's Theorem
Answer: I'm most equipped to give you a proof, so I'll do that; if you want anything else, please say something.  

Suppose we've got a finite group G and a subgroup of G that we'll call H. Lagrange's Theorem says that |H| divides |G| and the number of left cosets is |G| / |H|. We'll prove it in a few steps:  
 & nbsp;

1) For any subgroup H, a left coset of H has the same size as H.  
2) For the rest of the proof, assume H isn't just G or {1}; if it is, the theorem holds anyway.  
3) The cosets of H are all disjoint.  
4) Every element of G is a member of some coset of H.  
5) |G| = the sum of the sizes of all cosets.  
6) |G| = k|H|, where k is the number of left cosets.  

First, if you're not familiar with a (left) coset, here's the definition. We've got this subgroup H, and we take some element of G (call it g), and we multiply every element of H by g and denote that gH.
So gH = { gh such that g is in G, h is in H }.  
 & nbsp;

1) gH can't be bigger than H, so we just need to see that H isn't bigger than gH. We made gH by taking every element of H and multiplying it by g; if H *is* bigger than gH, it must be because two distinct elements h1 and h2 gave us gh1 = gh2. But we can cancel to get h1 = h2, which is a contradiction. This means that that can't happen, and gH and H must be the same size.  
 & nbsp;

2) Pretty self-explanatory; |G| and |{1}| both divide |G|. If H = G, then there's only one left coset-- the whole group! As we saw in (1), |gG| = |G|, so they must be the same.  
 & nbsp;

3) To see why they're disjoint, assume that they aren't; this implies there's some element x which is a member of both aH and bH for some distinct elements a, b in G. We know aH and bH only contain elements of the form ah and bh, so we can write x = ah1 = bh2.  

Now, a = bh2h1^-1. We can take any element ah in aH and rewrite it as bh2h1^-1 h, so aH is a subset of bH; we can do the same thing with b = ah1h2^-1 to see that bH is a subset of aH too. This means that any two left cosets of H are either identical or disjoint.  
 & nbsp;

4) Every element g in G is a member of some coset of H. H contains 1, so gH contains g * 1 = g.  
 & nbsp;

5) |G| = the sum of the sizes of all of the cosets. As we saw in (4) and (3), each element g in G is a member of exactly one coset. Thus, to get the total number of elements, we can just sum the sizes of each coset.  
 & nbsp;

6) Because all the cosets have the same size as H (and therefore as each other), we can rewrite the sum from (5) as |G| = k|H| where k is the number of cosets, and we can see that |H| divides |G|.
Qed.  
 & nbsp;

Lagrange's theorem is useful because it lets you deduce properties of a group from just its size. For example, what can we now deduce about groups with prime order?

Source: Dummit and Foote sections 3.1 and 3.2; abstract algebra student

Question: Why can't you point lasers at a plane?
Answer: To be accurate, you *can* do it.  You also *should* get arrested if you do. A laser could possibly blind a pilot. Even if the blindness is not permanent, having a blind person in charge of an airplane is an extreme safety hazard to the people on the plane and to the people on the ground.  
  
Don't do it. Not even once. It isn't funny, and it should result in you going to jail if you do it.

Question: The WAR statistic people talk about in baseball.
Answer: WAR stands for Wins above replacement.  It's basically the amount of wins a certain player is valued at above a player of the same position at the AAA level.

_URL_0_

Question: How are people able to fast for long periods at a time yet stay healthy?
Answer: Fasting can be a pretty flexible term, especially when used in a religious context. The people who “fast for 365 days” are eliminating a specific thing, like red meat or bread, for a specific duration, and many of them rotate that “thing” every week or month. So they say they’re fasting, but really they are going without bread for one month, then without soda for a month, then without red meat for a month, etc. This demonstrates personal determination and commitment, but it’s hardly going without food altogether.

Question: Why is gmail (or most email service) free?
Answer: It allows google to collect a shit ton of data about you  &  charge more for advertising directed at you online.

If you are not the customer you are the product

Question: What are the defining differences between streets, roads, avenues, boulevards, etc.? What dictates how it is designated?
Answer: **A boulevard is two lanes in each direction with a median of trees or greenery running the length of it.**

**An avenue is often two lanes in each direction and in a nicer part of the area.**

**A street can be any number of lanes in each direction, but is generally associated with a town or city or suburb.**

**A road is getting a little more rural, generally one lane in each direction, but not necessarily.**

Question: Why is the majority of the human population right hand and right eye dominant?
Answer: So there is definitely a tendency towards right handedness in people, but I would also point out that right now, there is social pressure on that as well: many left-handed children born in the 90s were forced to acclimate to right-handedness. When I was in preschool, I had to wear a sock on my left hand all day every day to force me to use my right hand.

Right-handedness has been found in our early human ancestors (about 2 million years ago) but not in our chimp relatives, which means that there is probably an effect of evolution on hand preference.

A gene variant was discovered in 2014 that appears to increase your odds of being left-handed. So while the science isn't settled, I would say that right-handed is the default and somewhere along human evolution, a series of small gene mutations, makes people favor their other hand.

Question: - Magnet links?
Answer: I didn't quite understand from the explanations in the other posts.  So I did some digging myself.

From what I can tell, a regular link is a URL that an internet browser knows what to do with.

These "magnet links" look like they're special URL links but specifically for torrent clients (like uTorrent, Bitlord, etc.). Instead of starting with "http://...", it starts with "magnet:?..."

The different pieces in it means stuff to the software that knows how to cut it up and use the different pieces. Just like an internet browser would.

With a magnet link, instead of downloading a .torrent file and opening that file in your torrent client, you just go to your torrent client and "point" it at the magnet link. From there, the downloading should work the same way.

I noticed some slight differences with the magnet link behaviour in Bitlord (my torrent client). If I download the torrent file first, I can then pick which files inside that torrent to download and which not to download. If I use the magnet link, I don't have that choice, it just downloads everything inside that torrent package.

Question: Why is it we pass out from standing too long with our knees locked, but not when we are lying down?
Answer: Locking your knees causes issues with blood flow which in turn causes you to pass out.

You don't lock your knees when you're laying down so it doesn't really apply.

Question: - What are both sides of this birth control debate and Congress? I've only heard the Rush Limbaugh stuff so I'm confused and would like as unbiased an explanation as possible
Answer: So Obama thought that religious affiliated institutions should provide healthcare through their insurance companies to their employees. 

These religious institutions didn't think they should have to provide healthcare options that provided birth control because they morally object to birth control. 

Republicans jumped on and said that forcing these organization to provide birth control violated their 1st Amendment rights. 

Congress called a bunch of people to testify before a committee about the matter. 

The committee refused to let any women testify, but heard from a number of priests and rabbis. 

Limbaugh then called one of the women meant to testify a slut for wanting birth control. 

Democrats have argued that if you let employers opt out of insurance options on "moral" grounds, then employers could essentially opt out of providing any sort of insurance.

Question: Why do police in America not seem to carry or use much non-lethal weaponry?
Answer: They do carry non-lethal weaponry.

But have you considered that when that non-lethal option is used, it's not really newsworthy? Can you imagine a front page reddit post that says "Officer uses taser to stop suspect, who is sent to jail without injury. Officer goes home and has spaghetti with his family"?

You're only hearing about things when they go horribly wrong, not the hundreds of times a day when they go right.

Question: What is the purpose of Information Technology Infrastructure Library(ITIL)?
Answer: At its most basic level, ITIL is really a set of best practices for IT Service Management - without a methodical approach, Service Management can be something that's done on a fairly ad-hoc basis without any specific direction to it.

Although ITIL doesn't seek to specifically set in stone how things should be done, as a framework it provides a useful toolset to build a company's IT Service Management organisation and practices on.

Question: Why is it when people see an incredibly cute baby one of the reactions is to 'eat' the baby? Or bite at it?
Answer: _URL_0_

Take a read of the article above.

To put it basically it is because the smell of the baby activates the same receptors of the brain as smelling nice food.

Question: luxury tax and sales tax are different things?
Answer: Sales tax is applied to everything.  But on top of that the government can also impose extra taxes on certain products.  So for a "luxury tax" that means that the government needs more money and taxes certain products a little more with the justification that if you can afford those products, then an extra 0.5% or so isn't going to make a difference to you.

Question: Why is most of society monogamous?
Answer: In the way olden days, if you went around having sex with anyone, you'd have no idea who actually fathered the child.  Cultural norms grew around the realization that if you were monogamous, you could safely assume the identity of each parent.  This is critical to the natural human family nucleus.

We don't see this more in nature, likely because we have more sophisticated social structures.  The extremely long time a mother has to nurse and raise a child (10-12 years) before it can be self-sufficient, necessitates a more prolonged and focused effort.

Its a very complicated question.  You could probably take several different angles, from evolutionary advantages, to social structures.

Question: Why Internet connections are fastest in South Korea?
Answer: >  People in the United States basically invented the Internet.

[people working at CERN in Europe basically invented the internet](_URL_0_)

Question: What is happening with he Chinese stock market and what effect will it have on people ?
Answer: Normal correction. [It's been wildly overvalued for a while.](_URL_1_) China's been red-lining their economy for a while, trying to get ahead of their demographic issues, so it's not really a surprise.

Now, what does it *mean*? Well, a lot of money just went poof, and part of their bubble was driven by margin lending (stocks bought with borrowed money), so that's double poof.

The good news is, most Chinese don't invest heavily in the markets, so it doesn't really hit the average citizen the way the big crash here hit us. Still, a lot of money coming out of the economy will have some ripples. It's going to impact the countries that export to China, somewhat. Probably going to slow the growth of their industry a bit.

Edit: I am aware that the Chinese markets are invested in heavily by individuals. My point is that the vast majority of individuals in China do not invest at all. So the money lost is not spread broadly across the country.

**ELI5 EDIT**:

People are telling me this is too complicated. Here it is simple.

Q: WHAT THE HELL IS GOING ON IN CHINA!??!?! A: China's stock market has gone INSANE in the last year, more than doubling. Lot of that was driven by people buying stocks with loaned money (on margin). The US stopped doing this after it kicked off the Great Depression. China is now learning the same lesson. Their market is still up more than 50% from this time last year, even though it's almost lost half it's value this month. They're also showing a lot of crappy economic indicators. This is way scarier than the stock thing, but will play out slowly.

Q: Then why is the US market also tanking? A: The US stock market has been steadily increasing for a LONG time. Too long. It's been overdue for what is known as a "correction", which is a drop of between 10% and 20% of the market value. [People have been expecting a correction for a while.](_URL_0_) 

Q: Are we going to die? A: Yes. But not from this. Probably from a heart attack. Totally the most common.

Question: Radical Reconstruction.
Answer: Radical Reconstruction was the radical republicans' plans to reintegrate the south into the union. It's terms were much more strict (50% of the population in each confederate state would have to pledge allegiance to the union) and it aimed for complete social reform as well.

Question: In school, when I have to read something out loud, I always concentrate on the reading instead of the content of the text. When I've finished reading, I can't remember a single word I've just read. What's happening in my brain when I'm reading?
Answer: I think it's because you concentrate on the reading not the content. You answered it yourself

Question: Marx's Labor Theory of Value
Answer: Essentially Marx said that the value of a commodity is equal to the labour that went into it, including the labour that built the tools used to make the item, or the buildings that housed the workers etc.  
  
It's contrasted by Adam Smith's labour theory of value, which says that a commodity is worth whatever labour somebody is willing to perform in exchange for the item.  
  
In essence, Smith says it's worth what people are willing to pay, and Marx says it's worth what was paid to make it.

Question: Why are many SE Asian countries mainly Muslim, when they were colonised by European countries?
Answer: Those countries had Muslims well before Europeans arrived. Before the Europeans spread all over the world and gobbled up all the land they could take, merchants and sailors from the Middle East had already spread out to distant regions in Eurasia.

Question: how the US are allowed to kill civilians with drones.
Answer: It's not really a question of being allowed or not. There's no authority above the nation state that can step in and lay down the law - all that exists are states and deliberative bodies composed of states (ie, the UN) . If a state is powerful enough to do something without the rest of the world finding it a worthwhile risk to intervene to stop it, then that's that. 

And that's what's happening. Nobody is going to risk annoying the US too much over this. And it's useful for countries like Russia and China, who will almost certainly use this same precedent in the future to blow up people they want to get rid of too.

Question: What happens when you're "clenching" your brain/head?
Answer: >  Is there a name for this phenomenon

Isometric muscle contraction is what is being performed, and the result which you seem to be interested in is a temporary increase in blood pressure and drop in blood oxygenation.

 >  what is your head actually doing?

The muscles in the head and neck are building tension without actually contracting, and presumably the breath is being held or restricted. This consumes oxygen from the blood and can increase blood pressure in the short term.

 >  Is it bad for you?

It isn't *great* but it is unlikely to be harmful if done in moderation with a healthy person. A similar result could be achieved by holding your breath until you feel dizzy which is basically impairing brain function from hypoxia. If you want my advice I would suggest not developing a recreational habit of impairing brain function.

Question: How do sea shells form? And what enables them to grow in size?
Answer: They are formed by the excretions of the animals inside. Snails and such, not the crabs or other things that live in emptied shells.

Question: Why do people use 0-60 mph to benchmark the acceleration of cars?
Answer: Because the actual benchmark is 0-100 km/h, which get's rounded down to 60 mph. 0-100 is a nice round number, and since everyone except the US uses the metric system that's the standard. So the significance is that 60 miles is about 100 km.

Question: What's the difference between Space Opera and Sci Fi?
Answer: Science fiction is any work of fiction set in the future that deals with technology more advanced than our own.

Space opera is a particular type of sci-fi that doesn't really care much about the specifics of the science and technology as much as it deals with grand narratives about galactic empires and grand heros.

Star Wars is a great example of space opera.  It has spaceships and robots and all that jazz but the story is really about good v. evil rather than the effects of that technology on society.  You could tell the same story set in medieval/high fantasy world without really changing much.

In contrast, look at something like *Ghost in the Shell* (just to pick a 2017 movie).  The technology is central to the plot and you can't tell the story without it.

Question: When should I use recirculated air vs. fresh air in my car?
Answer: Recirculating air will heat it faster, so yes. You should also recirculate your air when you are in a dirty area (lots of smoke, etc).

Question: Are there any major nutritional differences between brown and white eggs?
Answer: There is no nutritional difference, but markets can charge more for brown eggs because uninformed consumers think that they are healthier.  I have had people say this to me. Then I show them the eggs that my sister raises, all different colours. "So, is the blue or the pink egg the *healthier* one?" I'll ask. 

Brown eggs are laid by breeds of chickens with darker [earlobes](_URL_2_). These darker chickens are larger and cost more to feed -

 > He said the main reason the white-shelled eggs are more popular in the U.S. is that the chickens who lay them are smaller, eat less feed, and are therefore more cost efficient as egg producers. 

As mentioned, eggs are naturally many different [colours](_URL_0_), but industrial production and breed standardization  has eliminated this variety, and consumers have been conditioned to believe that white is the natural state.  

The modern industrial egg-production process destroys the natural membrane that protects eggs from bacteria. This is why eggs sold in North America are [refrigerated](_URL_1_), whereas in Europe they are not.

Buy free-range eggs, you'll never go back to regular ones.

Question: Can someone explain how tilt shift photography works like I've just learned to tie my own shoelaces
Answer: To answer your first question (how do you make this effect)

1. Get a picture of a large event where you can see for a long distance within the frame of the picture. See how in the picture you posted you can see many cars close up and also many cars far away? That's a good picture to start with!
2. Without going into too much technical detail, using a photo editor program you blur just the top and bottom of the picture using a gradient. This means that the top and bottom of the picture will be most blurry and as you get to the center the picture gets less blurry.

Congratulations, you just made a tilt-shift picture!

Now, why does it make things look miniature?

Well, this has to do with how your eyes look at small objects. Let's do a little experiment. Get three little toys and put them on your desk, so that one toy is in front, one toy is in back about 6 inches away, and the last toy is even further back, about another 6 inches away. Now get down towards desk level and close one eye and focus the other eye on the middle toy. 

You should notice that when you're focusing on the middle toy the toy in front and the toy in back are blurry. This is because the way your eyes and most camera lenses work, when you're looking at things relatively close to you (less than about 1-3 feet away), the lens in your eye that helps you focus can only focus on a narrow strip at the distance you are focusing. So when you are focusing on the middle toy, only the things that are that toy's distance away from your eye will be in focus, and everything else in front of and behind the toy will be blurry. This is called **narrow depth of field**, meaning that when you are focusing on something close to you, you can only focus on a **narrow** strip at the certain **depth** (aka distance from your eye) of the object you're looking at in your **field** of view.

So how does this tie into tilt-shift pictures? Well basically all these pictures are just mimicking what your eye does when it is looking at small objects close up. The cars closest to the camera (the ones at the bottom of the picture), and the cars farthest from the camera (the ones at the top of the picture), are made blurry because they are in front of or behind the depth at which the camera is "focusing" (remember in real life that the camera took a picture of real, life-sized objects from very far away so it was basically able to focus on everything all at once). But, once you treat the picture with the blurring effects, then your brain perceives the picture as if it was taken by a camera up close to toy-sized objects!

I hope that explanation helped!

Question: What is happening to New York City?
Answer: Well a lot of small businesses that have been here for decades are being driven out by corporations and upscale businesses due to rising rents and taxes. Many of these businesses give NYC it's unique flavor that you can't find anywhere else. For New Yorkers like myself it hits home hard seeing stuff like this happen. 

This is just one example; the city truly is changing as more and more immigrants and transplants move here there are less and less native families living here and and more and more of them leaving to places like NJ, LI, Florida, etc. 

I'm sorry it this wasn't comprehensive enough but this is my perspective of the situation. 

Despite this, I still think people are overreacting when they say NY is changing and it'll never be the same. Every city changes, for better or for worse but I'm glad to say NYC isn't going anywhere and it will continue to be the capital of the world for decades to come. I love my hometown and I have much pride for it.

Question: Why do violinist always play the instrument on their chin?
Answer: The left hand of the violin player is the one playing the notes and it has to be free to move up and down the neck as required, not clutching the instrument.

The strings seen in cross-section form an arced shape, not flat like a guitar. The bow has to be able to "attack" through a range of angles so that it touches one or sometimes two strings and not all of them. The length of the note sounded depends on the back and forth movement of the bow. It wouldn't be possible to move the bow through all these positions if the violin was in front of the body. Held as it is above the left arm and supported by the chin and shoulder, there is nothing to impede the range of movement of the bow.

Question: How does a satellites stay positioned on a geostationary orbital target that is not on the equator?
Answer: Geostationary orbits are only above the equator. Geosynchronous orbits are at the same distance but not necessarily in the plane of the equator.

Communications satellites are not necessarily geostationary or geosynchronous; if there are enough of them all at different orbits then they can cover most of the earth.

Question: How does doing a "small o" with your mouth produce cooler air while opening up your mouth while "hah-ing" produces warmer air
Answer: [It is called the Venturi Effect. Fluids, when constricted-air is a fluid in this discussion-speed up when constricted.  That makes things go relatively faster. Fast moving air pulls heat away, making the small o feel cooler](_URL_0_)

Question: Both sides of the Syrian civil war and what each side's goals.
Answer: There's probably at least 4, maybe 5 sides. So this isn't going to be easy.

Since you're five, we'll explain it like this: You hate going to school because there's a kid in the class (Bashar Al-Assad) who's always been the biggest and meanest bully, telling everyone what to do, and taking your lunch money whenever he wants. He's got a big brother (Russia) who's had a lot of experience bullying and teaches him how to do it and gives him knives and weapons and things to stay on top. Now, some of the other kids in the class (rebels) have gotten tired of this bully, and have seen other classes in the school where the bullies have been beaten up and taken out (Lybia, Egypt, Iraq, etc.). They are inspired by this and look to the other older kid that they think helped out those classes and who doesn't see himself as a bully, but more as a bodyguard (U.S.) except that he also expects a cut of the lunch money in return for his protection. This bodyguard has a little brother in a different class in the same grade (Israel) that's always hanging around and making threats and even hurting kids in the class then crying to his older brother when anyone fights back. Nobody in the grade likes this little brother and never does anything with him, but they're all scared of him and his older brother gives him A LOT of money to help keep him from getting beat up. One time, way back, they all tried to gang up and jump him, but he beat the crap out of them and then the older brother and cousins and all sorts of older kids showed up and nobody really messes with him anymore, except for the occasional spitball. But Israel just retaliates by putting his books and coat and backpack on his neighbors desks until he just of gets to claim them as his own.



Now, these two older bullies (Russia and the U.S.) really don't like each other, but they don't dare just show up to class and start a fight, because then the other will show up as well and the fight could be really bad. So, they just teach the younger kids in the class to fight and give them stuff to hurt each other.




The thing is, the first bully in the class (Al-Assad), he really doesn't like the other younger brother in the other class (Israel), and he used to help other kids in the class try and hurt Israel, then pretend he wasn't helping. Those kids (ISIS) ended up being really bad troublemakers and things got out of hand and they ended up getting mixed up in a gang that didn't like anyone else in the class, or grade, or school, or world. These kids got really scary and totally devoted to their gang and are glad to hurt anyone they can to prove their gang is the toughest. This gang was already involved in some of the other classes that got rid of their bullies so they felt like they could do anything. Their cousins (Al-Qaeda) once kicked the older bodyguard guy really hard right in the people-makers and everyone thought that was really cool until the older bodyguard guy showed up with his cousins and made life really miserable for that gang and all their families and pretty much the whole school. Despite this, the gang (ISIS) is still around and trying to prove they're tougher than the older kids and they have rich cousins (Saudi Arabia  &  Turkey) that kind of help them without pissing off the older bullies and so ISIS is the third side and they are causing a lot of problems. The cousins, Saudi Arabia and Turkey, both say they're friends with the bodyguard/bully and give him cool stuff (Saudi Arabia) and act like they want to hang with the bodyguards cousins (Turkey - NATO/EU), but they still give money to the gang. And give gang members as well.



The fourth and fifth sides are small groups of nerds in the class (Kurds and Yazidis) who don't really fit in and and the ISIS gang and class bully (Al-Assad) both really like to pick on. The ISIS gang gets help from their cousins in Turkey because Turkey hates nerds. The nerds trying to help fight ISIS as much as they can but they're poor and homeless and don't belong to the right religion and don't really have any lunch money to share with the older bully/bodyguards so they're kind of left to themselves to deal with getting kicked around and once in a while they try and get a kick in on ISIS because girl nerds are way cool.


Anyway, one day the teacher didn't show up (France, about 70 years ago) and never came back. One bully after another ran the class making everyone miserable up through the current bully. Today though, the rebels decided they had enough and started a fight because they've got a bodyguard even though the bully has a bodyguard. Things were going bad for both of them but then the gang saw their opportunity and joined the fight against them both and against the nerds and now things are really bad. Desks are flying and lunch boxes are being thrown and everyone in the class is getting hurt and no one can stop the fight because everyone has a grudge and the older bullies don't like each other and it would be bad to back down now.



Meanwhile, the bodyguard's little brother just took another desk in his classroom.

Question: What is the point of harvesting "likes" on Facebook if you are not directly promoting a business?
Answer: ALY5: It's the same reason that people try to get karma on Reddit, lad. They want recognition. They want to feel agreed with.

Question: Why does it hurt more to get an IV put in your hand than in the crook of your arm?
Answer: The hand has more nerve endings (sensors) because you need to feel what you're doing with your hand while doing complex tasks (typing for example).

The high density of "useful" nerves to sense touch, temperature, etc, also comes with a lot of nerves that detect pain. Arguably this serves a purpose, allowing you to detect/avoid injury while using your hands. But evolution isn't perfect, and many things that aren't clearly helpful occur as "side effects" of helpful adaptations.

Question: Why do some people with special needs have such similar facial features?
Answer: Because people who have the same problem generally have the same cause for that problem.

Take, for instance, Down's Syndrome. It's caused by having 3 copies of the 21st chromosome instead of just two. Every single person with Down's has this problem, and every single person with this problem has Down's. Along with varying degrees of mental retardation (some people with Down's are just as functional as someone without, others aren't), having trisomy 21 causes the facial features distinctive of the disorder because that's how genes work. If you break the program in the same way, you will get similar results.

Question: How do poems translated from one language to another still rhyme?
Answer: The translated form is altered in order to rhyme, almost always.  Usually the translator is also a poet who understands the original poet's style, so they'll try to keep the meaning and meter (if necessary) as close as possible to the original, while finding rhyming words that fit.

EDIT:  Here's an example from Charles Baudelaire, from *Benediction*

**Original French (rhyming):**

Car il ne sera fait que de pure lumière,

Puisée au foyer saint des rayons primitifs,

Et dont les yeux mortels, dans leur splendeur entière,

Ne sont que des miroirs obscurcis et plaintifs!

**More literal (non-rhyming) translation:**

For that crown will be made of nothing but pure light 

Drawn from the holy source of primal rays, 

Whereof our mortal eyes, in their fullest brightness, 

Are no more than tarnished, mournful mirrors!

**Rhyming translation:**

Because it will be only made of light, 

Drawn from the hearth of the essential rays, 

To which our mortal eyes, when burning bright, 

Are but the tarnished mirrors that they glaze.

You can see that word order and word choices have been fiddled a bit in that last example to make things rhyme.  But it mostly keeps the effect of the original, if the translator knows their stuff.

Question: Can people have smaller than average organs and what does it mean?
Answer: If you made it this long with little to no problems, I wouldn't worry about it.

Best thing to do is talk to your doctor about it.  She would probably feel bad if she knew what she said made you uncomfortable and she didn't know/therefore couldn't explain things for you so you could feel better.


I'm almost 36 and was 7 weeks early at 4lb 5oz.  I have a medically documented legit thick skull. Lol. A host of other problems too, but family genetics are to blame.

Question: why is it that flies seem to appear out of thin air so quickly (even indoors) when rotten things or feces are nearby?
Answer: Fun fact, up until recently in modern history people simply believed that things like garbage and feces spontaneously generated life because like you said, it seems like there are no flies, then trash and boom, hella flies. 

The truth is a little more boring and gross, it's simply that flies and maggots are all around you all the time, and they just congregate quickly. Since they have a fairly short life cycle and make tons of babies, it only takes a few days for a handful of flies to become a swarm.

Question: What are fair split screens?
Answer: If you're going to ask about a current Reddit post, [it's helpful to include a link to it in the question](_URL_0_).

Split screen video games are where you have multiple players, each with their own view on half the screen.  Think playing Golden Eye/Halo on a single system.

One of the problems you run into here is that the other player can look at your screen to see where you are, making it impossible to sneak up on somebody who is "cheating".

A "fair" split screen is one that somehow prevents this.

The method used in the post I presume you're talking about involves using a 3D TV and giving each player special glasses.  One player only sees the "left eye" image and the other only sees the "right eye" image.  When it works right, this means two people are looking at the same TV, playing the same game  &  seeing completely different images.

Question: What are mirrors made of? How does it get that reflection quality?
Answer: They used to be glass that had electroplated silver on one side and then black paint on top of that.  And they also used to be really well polished metal.  Now a days it is usually much cheaper aluminum on glass.

Question: I'm far sighted. Are there reverse-blurred images that would appear clear to me?
Answer: So you want something like this [shortsightedness optical illusion](_URL_0_). but for farsightedness.

Question: Why stage 4 cancer is "uncurable"
Answer: At stage 4, the cancer has spread throughout the body to multiple locations distant from the original tumor. It's considered uncurable at that point because it's not feasible, or really even possible to any degree of certainty, to remove all the tumors. At that point, the odds are pretty good you've not only got the tumors they can find, there are any number that are too small to be detected yet. The best you can do is chemo and/or radiation and hope for some degree of remission - but since it's already spread throughout the body, someday it IS going to come back and there's not much current medical technology can do about it.

Question: Why don't console developers re-release older consoles?
Answer: Because almost nobody buys them. The market for any electronic device drops through the floor as soon as a newer version comes out.

Question: Why does the US government bail out General Motors every time they go under?
Answer: > every time they go under

You mean once?

Question: Reasonable Force Laws in the UK
Answer: Basically it boils down to this:
 >  The prosecution must adduce sufficient evidence to satisfy a jury beyond reasonable doubt that the defendant was either:

 >  not acting to defend himself/herself or another; or
not acting to defend property; or not acting to prevent a crime or to apprehend an offender; or if he was so acting, the force used was excessive.

Question: Are US Congressional members actually exempt from insider trading laws? Is this okay?
Answer: Yes, and define "okay".

Insider trading is a broad statute that basically(attempts to) prevents people from trading on material knowledge the general public doesn't have.  Due to the broad policy implications of being in congress a given congressmen almost always has some sort of inside information.  Be that something specific like "acme is going to get the contract for XYZ" to something broad like "this tax bill probably won't pass".  What that means is basically any trade any given member of congress makes could theoretically have been done with nonpublic material information.  So to realistically prevent people from potentially being caught up in insider trading investigations congressmen would need to be completely removed from the management of their own money.  This already happens with key insiders of private institutions through systematic sales of their company stock.  The kicker is those programs are just for that given stock while congresspeople would need all investments(yes even purchases of government bonds) controlled.  So the only real solution is to have anyone who is a member of congress forfeit all of their assets in to a blind trust like presidents(up until the most recent one) have typically done.

Question: What happens if Hillary Clinton is charged with an offence by the FBI, how would this affect the Presidential race and would she be allowed to continue?
Answer: Legally speaking, it would have no impact.  Nor would a conviction, or even being in jail.  Article 2 of the US Constitution lays out the requirements for being elected president, and none of these factors enter into it.  

In fact, not having an indictment would be a terrible, terrible requirement.  Imagine if the day before the election, the leading candidate was barred because their political enemies managed a trumped up indictment.

Question: Why do children seemingly enjoy being tickled but grow to hate it as adults?
Answer: Plenty of adults like being tickled and plenty of kids hate being tickled. People often laugh involuntarily when they're tickled; this is a defense mechanism to signify submissiveness. People will often panic quite a bit because they don't like feeling vulnerable; this is because being tickled activates the part of your brain responsible for fight or flight. I remember being tickled by an older friend when I was little and I was laughing but telling her to stop. Likewise, in an episode of Family Guy, Lois laughs when Peter tickles her but then breaks his nose with a frying pan to get him to stop. 

A child may like it because they're more carefree and it's more of a playful thing to them. Remember, even if the kid is laughing, it doesn't mean they're okay with being tickled. An adult may feel helpless or vulnerable and may not like experiencing those feelings, but most often, they hate it because they were tickled a lot as kids. 

If you're a kid who loves being tickled then you'll probably grow up to be an adult who loves being tickled by his/her SO. Likewise, if you hate it, you'll probably hate it when you're older.

Question: Why is liquor supposedly better the longer it is aged?
Answer: Not all liquor and wine improve with age.  Many are designed to open immediately.  

With whiskey, for example, the process of making whiskey involves aging for years in a barrel.  The alcohol will cause chemical reactions with the wood of the barrel, which gives it it's iconic "whiskey" flavor and its caramel-brown color.  Most whiskey must be ages for 2-3 years before it can even be called whiskey, but many whiskeys are aged for 15-20+ years.  

With wine, your average consumer wine will turn brown and lose flavor if not opened for years.  It is not meant to be aged.  Good wine that has lots of tannins, like a Bordeaux wine, is aged and the tannins soften over a long time.

Question: Carbon-14 half-life and why it's only useful for dating organic materials less than 50,000 years old?
Answer: I think you're confused as to what a half life is. A half life is how long it takes for half of the material (in this case the radioactive carbon-14 isotope) to decay. I've never heard of a full life.

For example, take 100g of Carbon-14. After ~5,700 years (it's half life) you'll have 50g of Carbon-14. Now take another ~5,700 years and that 50g will be cut in half to 25g. Then in half to 12.5g. Repeat.

We say it's only good for about 50,000 years because after that point there's too little of the isotope left for us to reliably measure. You'd need to pick something with a longer half life to reliably date farther back.

Question: why do we cringe with certain sounds (nails on the chalkboard, etc.)
Answer: why do mods cringe when people refuse to search the archive?

Question: . Why is IPhone so popular? The new 6s has 2gigs of ram the same as my old Galaxy 4 and half as much as my note 5.
Answer: Like every Apple product, it is user friendly. It is really hard to screw anything up on it, and it is designed to be intuitive. How it is marketed has something to do with it too. (and their planned obsolescence helps keep them making money)

Question: Why to they have traffic reports on TV? How does it benefit only people watching at home?
Answer: People may be leaving the house soon, or they are waiting on somebody to arrive.

And I suppose its because people watching the news want to see the traffic.  If every time they had a traffic report everybody changed the station, they would stop running traffic reports.

Question: When a city loses power (like in a lot of movies), why aren't all the lights going off at the same time?
Answer: They call it a power grid for a reason, it is an actual grid. The main power lines come in from the power plant, which are then routed to different areas, then routed to smaller areas in each area, and so on and so forth until it reaches the end user. Think of it as an upside down tree. Trunk is the main line, branches are the end. Depending on what systems and safety protocols are in place, each grid may be on a little longer or shorter than others. Movies may exaggerate this somewhat but yes, it can happen like that.

Question: How do countries export electricity?
Answer: >  Do they connect power lines to other countries?

Pretty much - yes

Question: How long would it take to accelerate to the speed of light in space so that the crew wouldn't suffer any negative effects from accelerating too quickly.
Answer: You can't accelerate to the speed of light, and still have the crew made of matter.  So let's presume you meant 99% of the speed of light.

People deal well with 1g, 9.8m/s^2 of acceleration, and can stand 1.5g for a pretty long time.  But to allow for safe sleep and digestion, 1g should probably be your limit.  After a year you're a .76c, and you can get to .99c in a little over 18 months.

Question: What does the US government do with the millions of dollars worth of bitcoins they seize from online black markets?
Answer: The last time they seized a bunch from Silk Road, they [sold it in an auction](_URL_0_), like with other seized property. They sold it in 3,000-coin chunks.

As for newer stuff, I *think* [this is the FBI's wallet number](_URL_1_) so you can see they still have over 144,000 Bitcoin.

Question: What is it that makes someone a naturally talented singer vs. someone that sounds like nails on a chalkboard?
Answer: I work in music production (not my main occupation, but it's the one I am best at). I play stringed instruments, and I can't sing to save my life but I specialise in vocal production. 

In short... You can not be trained to be a great singer if you have nothing to begin with. Every single great singer I have worked with have had a natural ability. You can always tell them apart, because they can sing new material presented to them without having to practice or dissect it. They have an innate sense of melody and feel. When they are then given training on top of it... Boom. 
Singing is not about staying on pitch. You can teach a monkey to sing a scale correctly. Singing is how you treat the grey areas in between notes. 

Think of the end guitar solo in November Rain. You could play that melody on a piano but it wouldn't sound anywhere near as engaging. Every note would be bang on, whereas the guitar playing it has a lot of flirting with pitch and time to make it sound more human. 

And it's the same with a singer. Everyone can tell (whether they know it or not) if a singer connects to a melody, or simply just reciting the notes they have practiced. 

Now to the point... To sing like a singer, or play guitar like a guitarist, you have to not think about it. So if you have had to learn to sing, you will always be thinking about what you're doing. And that automatically stops you from expressing the emotion behind it. 

And as hard as it is to hear for some... You either have it, or you don't.

Question: Why does handwriting differ?
Answer: Out of personal experience, I remember when I first was learning to write, my teacher had a certain look to her handwriting I admired. So, I mimicked her until I picked up the handwriting. So to answer your question, it depends. If you like the font/style of the educator, chances are you'll mimick their handwriting. You may see a font in a book and want to just write your "t"s like that.

Question: "Era of Bad Feelings"
Answer: The Era of Good Feelings was a period of American history (early 1800s) that fell between major conflicts, expectations were high, the major political parties cooperated and people got along. 

The Era of Bad Feelings is just a cloy way of saying now is a time of conflict, lowered expectations and partisan bickering.

Question: Why is it that pretty much everyone enjoys music?
Answer: I used to work on an assembly line and we were allowed to have small radios on our benches while we worked.  My supervisor was a really cranky old lady that just never seemed happy about anything.  I was working near her desk one night (we rotated benches often) and to as not to offend her (and because I have a very eclectic taste in music) I asked her what kind of music she liked in order to find something that she would enjoy.  Her response was "I never listen to music, I don't really like it". 

After that she just seemed less...human.  That quite possibly explained why she never seemed happy, I mean how can you go through life without music...it's just not right.

Question: how does your digestive system get liquids separated to your kidneys?
Answer: It doesnt't really. The digestive system mostly absorbs everything it can from the food into the bloodstream (nutrients, water, etc.) and the rest of it (fiber, some water stercobilin from bile, etc.) comes out as poop. The kidney then takes the blood and removes the things you don't really need in it (some water and electrolytes, waste products, etc.)

Capsaicin, the substance responsible for the spiciness of pepper, is mostly absorbed into the blood, but most of it is broken down in the liver, so its concentration in the urine will not be enough to make it burn when you pee. The small amount that's left in the poop is more concentrated, which gives you the ring of fire. This applies both to spicy food and pepper vodka.

Question: Why are certain organs associated with certain feelings? For example, why do people think love comes from the heart?
Answer: In Shakespearean time the liver was where courage lied. If your liver did not receive enough blood you would have a pale liver. hence "lily liverd"

Question: Why don't/can't governments just illegalize smoking?
Answer: The tobacco lobby is very powerful, smoking is a huge economic industry, tons of people like smoking, lots of people object to the government acting as a nanny and regulating our well being, and prohibition has a poor track record. 

It's a losing proposition for just about the entire country.

Question: What is happening in the brain when someone has an "Aha!" moment?
Answer: One cell in your brain makes a path to another one, and voila you have a scenario that you reference for the rest of your life, unless you dont use it often, then it deteriorates. I don't remember all the specific terms cuz its early in the morning. But i suppose that IS what I'd tell a five year old

Question: Street Sweepers
Answer: Without them, major roads would be covered with dust and ground up asphalt and tire particles, not to mention litter.  Sweeping streets also reduces pollutants that end up in groundwater when it rains.

Question: Why is the unit of measure placed before the value for currencies?
Answer: It's not always. Cents or other symbols denoting fractions-of-a-currency often are placed after the number (example: 59¢ compared to $1.59). And euro symbols are often seen after the number in signage in some countries and sometimes even in the middle (e.g. 1€59.)

But for financial transactions it's usually up front as a matter of convenience for the observer, particularly in longer numbers such as international transactions that might be in separate currencies. You immediately know what currency the potentially long number is, and when it's a separated currency such as dollars-and-cents or pounds-and-pence, the symbol up front for the bigger of the two splits coming first immediately lets you know the magnitude of the number.

Question: How do they get the bubbles inside the soda?
Answer: The bubbles are carbon dioxide which is soluble in water. The main method they get the CO2 into the soda is a two step process.  

The first step is chilling the soda by running it through a chiller. This is necessary because CO2 (and gases in general) can stay dissolved in cold liquids much better and warmer ones. 

The second step is passing it through a carbonator which is essentially a small pipe that injects the CO2 into the soda.

Both of these processes happen "in line" meaning they happen more or less in the pipe as the soda is going from whatever tank its being held in on its way to the filler to put it in a can or bottle. Both the chiller and the carbonator are devices in that pipe.

Question: If I use a credit card and only buy 10$ of something, but my "minimum amount due" at the end of a payment period is 35$, do I pay just the 10$ or 35$?
Answer: You read the invoice, and figure out why it's 25 dollars more.  Was there a fraudulent charge ? Than you call their fraud department.  Was there a 25 dollar fee added on ? Was it legitimate ? Then you pay the 35.

Question: Why did I have to throw away the lid from my water bottle going into a stadium in Hamburg?
Answer: Removing the lid hampers the bottles ability to be used for other nefarious-type uses. It's hard to throw water bottles at the field/other team/your brother-in-law if most of the liquid and subsequent weight is removed while tossed. 

Also, removing the cap puts shame on the bottle which might make it think twice before launching itself at unsuspecting stadium goers.

Question: How does the 'scene' community work? Where 
is the motivation? Where does the money come from?
Answer: >   How is it that you can get TV shows moments after they're done airing, without paying a cent?

People recording TV through an input on their computer, encoding it in real-time with good CPUs, and immediately uploading it when the show's finished.

 >  Who is getting paid for all this hard work- it can't be all just for fun? 

Fun and competition. They compete to see who can do it the fastest and upload the most, because they like it. They also get access to the stuff their competitors upload, but these days it's about fun, they'd get access to that stuff anyway.

 >  How about games or movies?

With games there's even more competition, because you have to crack the anti-piracy measure. People are motivated by the challenge, and compete to see who can crack the protection first.

 >  Where does the money come from? 

What money? The money to pay for the FTP servers? They just put them together at home or pay a company for an ordinary dedicated server, the way people do for websites or videogame servers every day. None of the pirates are getting paid, if that's what you mean.

And because this is usually the question asked next...

 >  How can they release it before the release date?

Record labels send hundreds of albums out to reviewers in the months before release. Usually it's these that get leaked. Sometimes it's leaked by engineers or other studio employees, and sometimes it's even leaked by band members. 

Movie studios send out 'screener' copies to reviewers too. During Oscar voting, studios send screener copies of all their best movies to every member the Academy (5,835 members). These people, or their friends and kids, leak copies online. 

Videogames are often sent to stores weeks before the store is allowed to sell them. They're liked by an employee who has access to a copy. Other times the game is again, sent to reviewers.

Books are scanned and processed with optical character recognition software to become ebooks, and those are uploaded.

Question: As someone not from the US, what exactly are sororities and fraternities at university?
Answer: Reddit is probably not the place to get an unbiased opinion on Frats and Sororities...

/u/glendon24 eplained the entrance system pretty well. You have to pay what usually amounts to a large amount of money. This money is called Dues. The frat/ sorority uses the dues that you pay to fund social events, philanthropy and maintenance. 

Frats can provide lots of advantages in the business world which is the main reason people join them. Most fraternities have Alumni Association which will help Fraternity members find jobs. It also keeps track of what companies different alumni work at so if you are getting ready to apply someplace you could potentially have an immediate connection to that company that you might not have. I would assume Sororities work pretty much the same way. 

You are essentially paying to gain a social edge and a national support group. Not to mention that most people enjoy socializing with their Frats so it is enjoyable as well. 

Edit: A lot of people raise some good points. I think the most important point raised is that any "social edge or national support group" gained from Frats and Sororities has an expiration date. If you take advantage of what is offered while you are in school (study groups with other frat members, being active in the community around you, potential connections at business for internships that can be made possible through your frat alumni, and using your alumni connections to get your foot in the door for interviews at businesses that interest you/ further your career) THEN Frats and Sororities can be a huge leg up for a kid in college or about to graduate from college. 

For each year you remove yourself from college, what frat you were in starts to matter less and less and you current experience matters more and more. BUT a Frat can help you get that all important post college experience IF you use it to bolster your resume. 


Sure you can use it to party and have fun, but you are wasting its potential. If you Frat doesn't offer that kind of support then maybe you need to reevaluate why you are spending so much money on something so you can party at the time in your life that could easily determine your future.

Question: Could a President-Vice President couple pardon each other? Could the President pardon the VP, then pardon resign allowing the VP to pardon the President?
Answer: There is no reason a President cannot pardon the VP or vice-versa. Richard Nixon resigned in 1974 and was pardoned by his previous VP (now sitting president) Gerald Ford.

This pardon does not prevent the impeachment process which could remove the previous VP (now sitting President) from Office.

Question: Audio Interface
Answer: It's a box that connects to your computer to allow recording of more than one thing at once, for instance a whole band, and playing back through more than one speaker.
It has higher quality sound than a computer has built in and often has other features such  as effects and controls for the inputs.

Question: How is there wifi on buses (ie. megabus) and not on airplanes?
Answer: There is WiFi on many planes.  The reason there wasn't for a ling time after buses got it is for safety concerns.

Question: I googled Iran in the 1970s and none of the women wore burqas. Why has that changed?
Answer: Because they had a revolution in 1979, which led to the establishment of an Islamic republic  &  restrictions on the rights and freedoms of women.

Question: How does our immune system differentiate between good and bad bacteria?
Answer: You'd need a PhD in immunology to get any rigorous answer.

One overly broad way to answer "how does our immune system differentiate" is simply: it doesn't. 

If you raised a primary immune response to every bacterial cell you'd be in big trouble. Gut bacteria have evolved with us to either work to our benefit (mutualism) or to work without harming us (commensalism). There is usually very little benefit in killing a human for bacteria, but often a very high reward in behaving. Most pathogens evolve, over time, to be less pathogenic for that reason. 

A second possible answer is that our immune system doesn't need to differentiate because the good bacteria do it for us. The "good" bacteria not only evolved to be harmless/helpful to us, but they also evolved to be very efficient within us. Their efficiency is so high that they use up resources faster than invasive bacteria can. This competition depends upon the bacteria having evolved with humans for a long time, which often means it evolved low pathogenicity. 

A third answer is that the immune system modulates its response by area of the body. Pathogens in the gut trigger a weak immune response. Anything foreign in the blood, though, triggers a strong response. Immunologically this can work as simply as lowering the concentration of T or B cells. In a more complicated way, the cells that are present may be immature (this can be true even within the body, for example in the liver).

The human cells in your body are outnumbered 10:1 by bacteria. You can't live without them, and they can't live without us.

Question: Why is our current world map, the Mercator Map, not to scale? It represents the US as gigantic is reference to South America and Africa. In reality both of continents dwarf the US in size.
Answer: There is no way to accurately project a spherical surface onto a two-dimensional map.  Something has to be inaccurate, size, shape, distance, and or direction.

The advantage of the Mercator projection is that it preserves direction, which is useful for navigation.  It is also rectangular, so it better utilizes the space on a rectangular map.

There are [several other](_URL_0_) map projections, all with their strengths and weaknesses.

Question: If jury decisions have to be unanimous, why aren't there way more hung juries?
Answer: [Not all juries need to be unanimous](_URL_0_).

I believe that some courts don't allow juries to return hung until a certain amount of time has passed, in order to encourage discussion.

Question: How animals like Octopus are discovered to get "bored"
Answer: "Bored" is a human term, and it's associated with a set of negative behaviors.  The "cure for boredom" in humans is additional interaction.  

When an octopus is in a closed area, after a while they start to take on some of these same behaviors, and they stop when they have more interaction.  Thus the term "bored" gets applied by the humans observing them.

In nature, they probably just go a little farther to explore an area beyond their normal area.  Just like humans who decide to explore frontiers.  We're applying human emotional state labels to their observed state because it makes good predictions.

Question: How do airplanes take off?
Answer: They use their engines to push them down the runway faster and faster, until the amount of wind passing under their wings is enough to lift them into the air.

Question: Pleading the 5th Amendment
Answer: The 5th Amendment exists primarily because a prosecutor can almost always trick or browbeat any admission they choose out of a suspect.

People have trouble understanding this because they've never been placed in such a situation. They think "oh, I'd never say something incriminating because I was guilty". But it happens all the time to intelligent and discerning people.

Even simple mistakes can hurt you. Imagine I asked you where you were on the evening of December 3, 2016. You probably don't remember off-hand. But I keep hammering at you for an answer. Eventually, you 'remember' that you were at your grandmother's house. But then I pull out some surveillance that shows you buying some beer at a convenience store near your grandmother's house. Now I have evidence you're liar. You *weren't* at your grandmother's house - you were at a convenience store. The fact that neither place you at the scene of the murder doesn't matter - you're a liar who can't be trusted.

The power of the state to manipulate your own words against you is so potent that, in the absence of the 5th Amendment, you're effectively relying on prosecutors to be perfectly honest and above-board. They can easily send you to jail despite your innocence, but they don't - despite all the incentives for them being aligned in the hang-em-high direction. This is an unreasonable amount of power to place in the hands of prosecutors.

Question: why aren't laughs different in the same way languages and accents are?
Answer: They absolutely are. It might be harder to detect because, well, it's a semi-involuntary sound, but there are, in fact, different "laughter" dialect.

Another point is tat laughter hardly ever needs translation, so...

Question: How much of a connection is there between being good at basic math and mastering algebra, calculus?
Answer: Engineer here.

It's still a large gap from High School maths to Math analysis / Calculus. College Algebra is more accessible (the initial parts, then it gets hard as the rest).

From my experience. To pass with good grades you need to study a bit BUT solving A LOT of exercises. Maths in college are a mix between understanding and remembering what you should do.

*You have to know what to do immediately:* That a major difference between College math and HS. You don't have a lot of time to think about how are you going to solve that problem or pre-testing on how you will solve that. You need to have that type of exercises burnt into your head. That requires a lot of exercise solving, even if you don't understand all the steps.

Of course you can try to understand it all. But most of the cases you have other things to study for / projects to deliver, etc.

I don't think it's a bad thing. You will forget about those exercises in the next semester but the essential part will still remain. Also forcing to solving exercises separates the Lazy students from the hard-working ones.

College is about hard-working. The intelligence parts it's not as relevant as it was in during HS.

 > How much of a connection is there between being good at basic math and mastering algebra, calculus?

Keep in mind after you "Master" something you still need to train everyday.

Question: What made militant Islam what it is today?
Answer: I think it's similar to the "Know Nothing" party in the US that developed.  It's a counter movement to enlightenment, to be proud to be ignorant, because knowledge is frightening to long standing thoughts about the way the world works, such as religion.

Couple that with some seriously barbaric text in the Koran that calls for the killing, subjugation, and forced conversion of non-believers, and you have a recipe for disaster.

Here's one example:

 > Quran 9:29 "Fight those who do not believe in Allah or in the Last Day and who do not consider unlawful what Allah and His Messenger have made unlawful and who do not adopt the religion of truth from those who were given the Scripture - [fight] until they give the jizyah willingly while they are humbled."

Question: Why do most diseases seem to originate from China or India?
Answer: Well, it doesn't seem that way to begin with...so, how to ans that?

Question: how does dust form? And what generates the biggest amount of dust?
Answer: A lot of people will tell you it's mostly dead skin cells, but that's obviously not the majority of dust. You can easily verify this by leaving stuff in a non climate controlled storage unit for a year and coming back to find a layer of dust. Dust is mostly just particles of dirt and whatever else that is light enough to be picked up by wind.

Question: what is the difference between the cheap batteries that come in toys and major brand batteries, like Duracell, and why does the latter last a lot longer?
Answer: Usually toys come with an "extra heavy duty" battery which is a generic name for [zinc-chloride](_URL_1_).  These batteries are really bad.  An AA might hold 1.5 watt-hours of power.  Some really cheap toys come with "heavy duty" batteries or zinc-carbon.  These are the worst and an AA might have 1 watt-hour of power.

Duracell is an [alkaline](_URL_2_) battery.  An AA might hold 3 watt-hours of power.  Twice or three times as much!

But there is an even better battery out there.  The [NiMH](_URL_0_) battery doesn't hold any more power than an alkaline but it will never leak inside your stuff.  And it is rechargeable so it can be used over and over.  Saves a lot of money that way.  To avoid a lot of fancy mumbo jumbo let's just say that NiMH can also "push" electricity a lot harder than alkalines can so they do better in toys with motors or flashlights or stuff like that.

Question: Are there prostitutes or camp follower types with modern armies?
Answer: The army, of course, does not 'officially support' prostitutes.

However, wherever there are soldier, there will be prostitutes. War time poverty compounds the effect, and often the soldiers who are foreign to the locale will enjoy the companies of the local girls. The military rather does not like its personnel spending time with hoes because they might get sick or give away intelligence to the enemies, but it is very difficult to not let soldiers get their release, so they will turn a blind eye.

Question: why is online gambling illegal in most places, but things like draftkings and fanduel which pay out real money aren't?
Answer: When the laws related to online gambling were made a few years ago, a specific exception was made for fantasy sports; but I don't think they expected it to become what it is now.

_URL_0_

_URL_1_

Question: What happens when a currency 'dies'?
Answer: Typically the government prints a new currency, and for a limited-time period, they offer you to exchange the dying currency with the new one. In Zimbabwe's case, they abolished their old currency in 2009 and just started using foreign countries' currencies like US dollars and South African rands. People stopped using Zimbabwean dollars long ago because of hyperinflation, the money lost value so quickly that within a single day a Zimbabwean dollar lost half it's value. The government at one point was printing bills worth Z$100,000,000,000,000 (one hundred trillion).

Question: How does volume work? If I turn the dial on my stereo, what exactly is happening that causes the sound to be louder or quieter?
Answer: [Here's a fairly simple design for an amplifier.](_URL_2_)

[If you look at this picture you can see more or less how it works](_URL_1_)  There's a bunch of crap on there that's not really important to understanding how a volume knob works and can safely be ignored.   The important part is that the (weak) audio signal is coming in at the bottom through the + audio input, going up to spot marked "3" on the amplifier chip, and then a more powerful version of the same signal is coming out the "5" so that it can drive the speaker that's over on the right.

[I've marked the volume knob in blue on this version of the same image.](_URL_0_) The little upside down triangle bit at the bottom is the symbol for ground.  What's happening is that the volume knob is letting a certain % of the signal go through to the amp where it's boosted up and goes out the speaker, and directing a certain % to the ground where it's basically "wasted".  

Turn the knob to 0 and 100% goes to ground and you get no sound at all, turn the knob to 5 and 50% goes to the amp and 50% to ground and you get a moderate amount of sound, turn the knob to 10 and 100% is going to the amp and it gets loud and fuck.

I'm not the guy from the blog, I just used his design because it's pretty good. All copyrights  &  credit belongs to him.

Question: Were the Earth to be attacked by external force  &  we bonded together as a whole regardless of economics and borders, what are we be capable of defensively?
Answer: Attacked by an external force?  We wouldn't be capable of anything.  It'd probably be over before we even knew we were under attack.  They'd have to be more advanced than us because they made it here. They would most likely be a lot more advanced than us.  It'd be unlikely that another "nearby" civilisation was only slightly more advanced than us given how old the universe is.  

It'd be like us attacking a stone age tribe.

Question: How does alcohol make you dehydrated? Where does the water stored in your body go just by drinking another substance?
Answer: Humans have a hormone that prevents them from urinating. Alcohol lowers this hormone so you urinate a lot more than you should which results in you losing more water than you gained from drinking the alcohol.

Question: Why can't energy be harnessed through gravity?
Answer: We already harness energy from gravity... just not in the way your friend thinks.  Hydroelectric dams use their height to store potential energy in a reservoir.  The height difference between the water and the turbines means that gravity is used to move water past turbines thus creating energy.

Question: Why does the computer mouse sometimes jump in a random direction?
Answer: It shouldn't, when just sitting still.  I assume you mean when you are moving it.  
  
Older mouses had a ball that made two different little wheels inside rotate, and that would be translated by the computer into mouse motion. But those little wheels would pick up dust and gunk and that could make them get erratic.  
  
Most modern mouses use a laser diode emitter and a sensor. The laser diode shines a bright light at the surface, and tiny changes in the reflections back into the sensor are used to determine the direction that the mouse is moving. But if that sensor gets dirty, or the surface it is being used on is dirty or very uneven, then the software gets a bit confused.  This can also happen on some very shiny or smooth surfaces, since there isn't much information for the sensor to work with.

Question: Why Mclaren CEO Ron Dennis is being pushed out of his job?
Answer: In a takeover battle for McLaren shares, he seems to have backed the "wrong" side (the Chinese), and the remaining shareholders (from the Middle East) don't trust him any more and are trying to oust him.

Question: Insurance - what is it exactly? What is its purpose? How is it implemented? How come people are against insurance companies?
Answer: Insurance is a way to control risk. The situations where insurance makes the most sense is when there is an event of a low probability of occurrence but with very severe consequences. For example there is car insurance where you *probably* won't get into a car accident if you are careful but if you did the financial impact would be large.

With insurance everyone pays a smaller amount of money into a pool which is available to cover the cost of this bad event. With car insurance you pay a few hundred dollars so when someone crashes they can pay thousands to fix the cars. Most people who pay in don't get any payout, just safety from the risk of needing to pay a large amount.

Insurance companies are organization which create, market, and administer these pools of money for various purposes. You can get insurance on pretty much anything but there are some things which are more common: Automobile insurance, homeowners insurance, life insurance, etc.

People are often "against insurance companies" because the companies have an interest in maintaining the pool of money. Such companies carefully assess and predict the amount of risk involved with a certain event and base their fees off that calculation. If they estimate too low then they will run out of money in the pool and go out of business, and if they guess too high they can't offer competitive rates. One of the biggest points of anger is about the specific circumstances the companies pay out under.

For example suppose you are worried about dropping your smartphone and breaking the screen so you purchase insurance. Then you go off and drop your phone in some water and it doesn't work; the company is going to refuse to pay out for your phone. Why? They only agreed to pay for a broken screen from dropping it, not water damage! If they needed to cover every possible damage from dropping the phone you would need to pay more. Or suppose you come in with a broken screen but it was caused by running over it with your car, not because you dropped it. They would still not pay out because they assessed the risk of *you dropping the phone and the screen breaking*, not the screen breaking for any reason.

Usually such anger comes from a lack of understanding of the precise limits of the insurance purchased.

Question: Why does it take so long (longer than a week) to feel pain after a car accident and not a few days?
Answer: If there still is pain you better go see a doctor and ask an actual professional about your very specific case!

There can be no general answer as injuries - from neglectible to very concerning - of all imaginable and unimaginable kinds can happen.

Question: How accurate are nutrition labels on foods?
Answer: Theoretically, they're pretty accurate. Numbers can be gotten through chemical testing or by combining the known nutritional quantities of the ingredients that go into the food. 

Typically, the bigger the food manufacturer, the more accurate its nutritional values are, as the manufacturing process and ingredient quality are typically more tightly controlled and regulated.

Question: Why are lactose-free products primarily targeted towards women?
Answer: I'm assuming it is purely marketing... women still do most of the domestic tasks of a hetero-normative, "average", family. This includes the shopping. 

Perhaps women are more likely to engage with the dialogue around "wellness" too?

Question: How did diseases that are only transmitted Sexually originate ?
Answer: Most infectious human diseases, not just STDs, originally came from animals.  Often domestic animals, but sometimes wild animals as well.  The flu, TB, etc., come from pigs, chickens, and cattle.  HIV came from wild apes or monkeys, and Ebola is thought to have come from bats.

Most STD's weren't originally only transmitted through sex.  But as people's standards of living and hygiene improved, some diseases became less likely to be transmitted through non-sexual contact.  And they're now mainly spread by sex, so they became sexually transmitted diseases by default.

Examples:

HIV probably spread to humans from primates when people killed and butchered monkey or ape meat.  It also may have spread through mass vaccinations in colonial Africa.  It spread through blood transfusions in North America.  But once people paid closer attention to keeping the blood supply clean and keeping needles clean, HIV mainly only spreads through sex.

Syphilis used to spread by skin to skin non-sexual contact, especially in the tropics.  But in colder countries where people wore more clothes, syphilis mainly spread through sexual contact and was concentrated in the genital area, one of the parts of the body that tended to stay warm in the winter.

Same goes for chlamydia and gonorrhea.  They used to spread through non-sexual contact.  Children caught the diseases from touching each other and playing with each other.  But since hygiene and living standards have improved, they mainly only spread through sex now.

Question: How and why are the Samsung Galaxy Note 7 exploding and catching on fire?
Answer: A huge flaw in the lithium ion batteries they use. Unlike most batteries, lithium ion batteries contain a flammable electrolyte. Under certain situations this can cause it to release gas, which builds up inside the highly pressurized case.

In most cases, it starts to swell first and then, well, explodes: _URL_0_ This is normally caused by over-charging. So while we don't have all the details for the galaxy note 7 issues, you can be sure its a flaw resulting in this outcome, but very fast.

Question: How does metamorphosis work?
Answer: Inside the cocoon and the chrysalis, the caterpillar is transforming into a new creature. This requires that the old caterpillar body be broken down and turned into something new. Think of it as insect recycling!

Inside a chrysalis, a caterpillar’s body digests itself from the inside out. The same juices it used to digest food as a larva it now uses to break down its own body!

The fluid breaks down the old caterpillar body into cells called imaginal cells. Imaginal cells are undifferentiated cells, which means they can become any type of cell. Many of these imaginal cells are used to form the new body.

The process of transformation within the chrysalis is known as holometabolism. Although it varies by species, the whole process usually takes about two weeks. In some species, though, the process can take months if they stay inside the chrysalis to survive cold winter weather. Eventually those cells I told you about earlier turn into new cells (Wing, eye, leg etc) and a new butterfly forms.

Question: How do volcanoes work?
Answer: Short answer: Volcanoes come from melted rock rising from deep underground. 

Long answer:

The crust of our planet is thin like the skin of an apple, but it does not stay in one place like an apple. Pieces of the crust, called plates, float around and even bump into each other. Or they float apart and reveal what's below.

Beneath the crust there is a lot of pressure, and where there's pressure there's heat. Think of a piece of clay or dough in your hands. When it's cold it's very hard, even brittle. But when you squeeze it, press on it, roll it around between your hands, then it gets warmer, softer. If it's warm enough it'll even act like a liquid. The deeper you go underground, the more rocks act like liquids. In really hot spots the rocks really are liquid, called magma. 

When the magma is hot enough it rises. And when there's enough hot magma in a spot, it can burn a hole straight up through the crust, forming a volcano.

Now, there are three kinds of volcanoes, and they show up according to the types of rock involved. There are rocks that melt into magma that is thin like syrup, and there are rocks that melt into magma that is much thicker, like dough.

Shield volcanoes are very wide and very flat. Many islands are made this way, like Hawaii. The magma there is thin. It comes to the surface and spreads out like juice spilled across the floor.

Cinder cone Volcanoes are taller and pointed, like upside down ice cream cones. They are made of very thick magma that clogs itself when it tries to break through the crust. They are a lot like pimples, making bumps on the surface that sometimes pop.

Then there are strata volcanoes. These are the really big mountain volcanoes like Vesuvius and St. Helen's. They are made of a mix between thick and thin magma, and so they have magma that rises easily but isn't so thin it spreads flat. It forms massive bulges that build up tons of pressure before they finally explode.

Bonus info: When the plates float across an underground hot spot, chains of volcanoes will form. If the pacific plate did not move, Hawaii would be one big island. Instead it is a series of islands, and both the size and position of the islands tell us the speed and direction of the plate's movement. The cascade range in the pacific north west is the product of one plate that is sinking under another plate, as it sinks it melts, and the melted bits become rising magma, continuing today to build that beautiful and volcanically active range of mountains.

Edit: double bonus.

I started to make the point but abandoned it, when plates spread apart then magma rises through the cracks, forming a kind of formation, deep sea vents. I'm not sure if they're technically volcanic though, they come from water that seeps underground into the crack between plates, gets super heated, then erupts back out of the sea floor.

Question: If deep freezing only puts bacteria to sleep rather than killing them, then why does deep freezing sushi/sashimi fish makes them safe to consume raw?
Answer: I think you're confusing bacteria with parasites. Freezing kills harmful parasites like tapeworms and roundworms. 

The bacteria you're concerned about has nothing to do with the fish itself and everything to do with who handles it. If there is any harmful bacteria on your sushi, I'd blame your chef for not washing their hands.

Question: How can this camera "visualize" the movement of light?
Answer: Unlike a normal camera it doesn't capture the action as it happens. 

Instead, what it does is it takes many different images at different times and different experiements and then splices them together to form a coherent picture. 

It's like if you wished to get a slow motion video of water falling. You could get a high speed camera, or repeat the drop many times, taking pictures at different times each drop and then combine them together. 

As for the question of how exactly they captured the image, there is scattering going on. That's why they have to run this many times (many laser flashes). Every time they do it, they acquire more and more 'leaked' photons. That coupled with the previous technique gives a good imagine of where photons are and where they came from.

Question: What's the difference between a unitary system and a federal system?
Answer: In a federal system there are multiple and separate governments. They have no direct "say" over each other. But if there are conflicting laws, then one government, usually the federal one, has its laws prevail.

So for instance, if I am in Las Vegas, I am subject to the laws of the US and the laws of the State of Nevada. The federal laws cover certain things. Let's say free speech, for example, which is in the federal constitution. But the State of Nevada can make it's own laws that may have nothing to do with federal laws. So have laws on how grocery stores may be operated, and those laws apply here. But Federal law is silent on the grocery store issue. 

Also, in a Federal system, these governments are truly independent. The President of the US or the Congress or the Federal Supreme Court have zero influence on who should be governor of any state.

In a unitary system, local governments only have powers that are given to it by the national government. And local officials might serve at the pleasure of the national government.

Question: Why when recording a song in a studio do they use a screen in front of the mic?
Answer: It's called a pop filter, and it is used to break up "plosives" which are your Bs and Ps. When these sounds are produced they release a blast of air, and the microphone picks these up as bass rumbles under the fundamental frequency of the voice. The mesh of the pop filter diffuses the air passing through so everything useful goes through while the rumble is reduced.

Question: How does the resonance in a certain room make just a single string of stringed instruments vibrate and get louder and louder?
Answer: Sound is a wave - a series of compressions (extra dense spots) and rarefactions (extra empty spots) in the air. Those sound waves bounce off the walls of the room, and propagate back into the room, where they overlap with other sound waves. (Mathematically, the overlapping of two waves is called [superposition](_URL_0_) )

If the peaks and troughs of those waves overlap at exactly the same points in space, they will amplify each other. This amplification is known as resonance.

Question: When you burn yourself, for instance by running very hot water over your hand, why does it take a solid second or two to actually feel pain?
Answer: This coming from highschool bio knowledge so someone else might be able to give you a better answer.  But there are 2 different kinds of nerves. The reason you pull your hand back is the first nerve in action, it's a reflex nerve. This saves time for the brain. Rather than have the signal go all the way to the brain, and all the way back to the muscles to move the hand, the reflex nerve takes it and does it quickly, then the signal to the brain is sent

Sorry if it's not very clear, been a while side I did bio.

Question: What happens to a country's Nuclear Weapons after its government falls?
Answer: As far as I am aware the only time something like this happened was during the fall of the USSR. Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan all returned the war heads to Russia as far as I know.

Question: What are the scientific reasons why consanguineous marriage causes disabilities, malformations and congenital anomalies in the offspring?
Answer: They don't, always. The degree to which it happens is typically overstated. However, inbreeding tends to result in homozygosity. Basically, more people sharing the same copies of genes. Since you get them from your parents, and your SO is closely related and also got them from their parents, your kid has a greater chance of getting one from either/both parents, and so on.

If these genes happen to be ordinarily recessive, harmfully messed up genes, this ups the chance that you get two copies of the bad thing, in which case, even though it's recessive, now you're stuck with the associated condition.

If grandpa has a bad gene, and passes it on to dad, at least you've got a chance to get a good gene from mom. If grandpa has a bad gene, and passed it on to both mom and dad, well, that's more risk.

Question: Google Reader (or RSS feeds in general)
Answer: Oh, hello, five-year-old that knows how to use reddit. Do you like water? Me too! Some people like water so much they go to different places to pick up water each day, and the stores sell different pieces of water each day. Different stores sell different colors of water, so people will drive by each store and pick up all the different colors of water.

But for some people, they didn't want to do that! What if the water got mixed up? Google Reader went around and said "Hey, guys! I can help! I can go around, pick up all the new water for you, and then you can come by to my store and see all the water there, even if it's from more then one store." So people told Google Reader what stores they bought the water from, and Google Reader went around and let the people look and drink the water at their site.

But Google Reader seems to think that not enough people use it, and so they're closing down. Which is sad, because lots of people DO use it, and they are all sad. Which is sadly terribly sad.

(Different bits of water = items in RSS feed, different colors of water = different sites, Store = website)

Question: Why do ghostwriters ghostwrite when they are clearly talented enough to make a name for themselves?
Answer: Some ghostwriters are already famous authors, and write for a paycheck. Some might be modestly successful, but an "auto"biography from someone famous is likely to make a lot more. 

Also, some writers like their subjects and want to write those stories. People line up to write for Presidents and Politicians. 

There's also less risk to your reputation, and some writers like the opportunity to take some literary risks or break the mold they are known for. 

And, of course, others do it to get writing "credits" under their belt. Manuscripts from nobodies end up in the circular file. But the new book from the guy that ghostwrote the last Kardashian Sutra is going to get some curious glances.

Question: How one would go about training themselves to wake up LATER as opposed to earlier
Answer: Keep  your room absolutely pitch black until you want to wake up.  Light is the main signaler of your body to be awake, so if you have a window, especially a window that faces East (where the Sun rises in the morning), more than likely the sunrise is waking you up.  Get some blackout curtains, and keep your room dark.  Put your bedside lamp on a timer and use that as an alarm clock (in addition to an actual alarm clock set five or ten minutes later).

Stay up later.  Use light as your advantage, and keep your room bright until you want to go to sleep.  If you're trying to wake up at, say, ten instead of seven, that means you need to stay up until about 1:30-2AM.  Keep your lights bright, especially blue lights, until about half an hour before you sleep.

Shift your mealtimes so that you eat a larger meal later in the day.  Hunger somewhat regulates your circadian rhythm, and is also somewhat regulated *by* your circadian rhythm.  A late dinner will push your cycle back and keep you awake later.

Be very consistent with your changes.  Stay up late even if you're dead tired, even if you know it means you'll be more tired the next day.  Eat dinner at around the same time every night.  Get your body into that pattern and it will shape your circadian rhythm to match.

Side note: this is weird, I'm so used to giving good sleep hygiene advice to fix wonky sleep schedules the other way.  This is like...all really bad sleep hygiene, but hey if you want to wake up later that's how you do it.

Question: Whats the point of voting for President if the Electoral College exists?
Answer: Your vote tells the electoral college how to vote (more specifically, you're voting for an elector who has promised to vote for a certain candidate).

Question: What does it mean when the PM "forms a new government" in the UK political system?
Answer: The US equivalent is the "new administration". Different officials (in the UK, elected in their constituencies) are appointed to various positions in the 'new' government to replace those who lost their positions (by failing to get enough votes in their local elections, or because the current ruling majority party doesn't want them there). 

ETA: The reason that this is 'new' (despite having the same leader and same party controlling the biggest share of seats) is that they've had to rope in the winning MPs from another party to make up their majority. So this will be a minority government comprised of two parties to make a majority. 

It's the old political chop/change job after an election. This time, with more shoehorned whack jobs!

Question: How does Tilt-Shift photography work? What causes the change in the photos?
Answer: It's created by literally tilting the lens so part of the picture, that normally would be in focus, is now out of focus. In photography, [depth of field](_URL_0_) is the term that refers to how much of the scene is in focus. Close up pictures of small things will have a narrow depth of field and far away pictures of big things will have a wide depth of field. By tilting the lens and altering the depth of field unnaturally, your brain then processes the picture as if it is a close up of something small. So this is why a tilt-shift picture of a city looks like it's a small model city. 

edit: a word

Question: Why can't we drink seawater when we're dehyrdated?
Answer: Seawater has about three times the salt content of urine.

That means for every cup of seawater you drink, you body has to come up with 2 more cups of water to eliminate it.

Question: Why do people get drunk quicker / easier in high altitudes? (Colorado, etc)
Answer: [You don't](_URL_0_).

 > In a series of studies for the Federal Aviation Administration, scientists simulated the effects of altitude, performing blood alcohol tests on groups of subjects who drank under ground-level and high-altitude conditions. They found no difference.

Question: Why did we nuke Hiroshima and Nagasaki instead of hitting Japan's military bases?
Answer: > I don't see why hundreds of thousands of people had to pay the price for the actions of their government.

In a sense, that's why we did it. The Japanese were basically too stubborn to give up, and the bombings were (in part) to terrify them into submission. Ruining the shit out of civilian populations is a good way to do something like that. We weren't just trying to cripple them militarily, we wanted maximum psychological impact.

_URL_0_

Question: Why does time of morning make it harder to get up?
Answer: It's likely because of a process called circadian rhythm. The chemicals in your body, the temperature of your body, and the amount of light causes you to either feel sleepy or alert. It's probably an evolutionary response, so the first humans could have the energy to gather food and everything else they needed when there was daylight and go to sleep when it was dark (when they wouldn't be able to see to work). It's also notable that teenagers bodies work differently, which is why they tend to stay up late and have a hard time getting up early. Usually, the sun isn't up at 6:30 a.m., so that could be your problem, but it could also be that you're simply not used to getting up early. I know people who can't sleep past 7 a.m. because that's when they always get up and I assume their body has adjusted to that schedule.

Question: Wi-Fi - How is data loss not an issue?
Answer: Ok, first part

Yes, data loss absolutely is an issue. You said it yourself, your connection speed goes down as you get further away from the access point. Why? It's because of [forward error correction](_URL_0_), basically your device and the access point notice an increase in errors and so negotiate to use a certain amount of redundancy. 2/3 FEC for example, for every 3 bits that are transmitted 1 of them is a parity bit, a bit that doesn't contain any information per se, but lets the recipient know if there's an error in the message. If you have enough parity bits the recipient will be able to detect a certain amount of possible errors, it may even be able to use the information in the parity bits to figure out which bits are incorrect and will correct them itself, rather than request the packet be retransmitted.

This is the reason your connection speed drops, there's a finite limit to the amount of bits per second you can send on a certain frequency using a certain modulation scheme, if you have a higher proportion of parity bits to data bits it means you have less data being sent per second.

As for the second part, yeah, everyone on the network can see the packets that are being sent around the network. Get a program called WireShark, it lets you see all the packets being transmitted around your device. 

Things like encryption are done on a higher level than WiFi, stuff like SSL and SSH is what stops the people on your network from stealing your Facebook password.

Question: Why does a vacuum 'suck'?
Answer: It's not actually that a vacuum sucks, but that any gas will spreed out as there is nothing to contain it. It's just something of higher pressure will move towards lower pressure to even it out.

Question: Where Hitler's ideologies came from
Answer: Many think they were at least, in part, derive from Herbert Spencer. Darwin’s contemporary, he fused Darwin’s ideas of evolution with sociology and politics, forming social Darwinism, the “belief popular in the late Victorian era in England, America, and elsewhere, which states that the strongest or fittest should survive and flourish in society, while the weak and unfit should be allowed to die” 

Similarities can be seen in Hitler's ideologies...
"The stronger must dominate and not blend with the weaker, thus sacrificing his own greatness” (Hitler Chapter 11: Nation and Race). Hitler’s idealist race, the “Aryans,” fully encompasses this “survival of the fittest” attitude, where all of the "less fit" individuals are left to die.

Question: Why do TV shows sometimes have cast that are "featuring" or "with," and included as part of the main cast?
Answer: In addition to /u/Teekno's great response, last billing is often used when an older, more established actor takes on a non-leading role.

It is important for both the show and the actor to give the impression they are more than just an ordinary cast member.  Rich and famous Danny DeVito working on a small project he finds interesting artistically is a good story.  Broke and pathetic Danny DeVito schlepping for a paycheck on basic cable is a downer.  Giving him special mention lets viewers know which one it is.

Question: Why is it when oil prices were $110/barrel I paid $4/gallon at the pump, but now that they are $60/barrel I pay $3/gallon at the pump?
Answer: That is only the price of crude oil, which still needs to be refined in order to be used in your car.  The price of crude oil is not going to be exactly proportional to the price of gasoline because the costs to process the crude oil haven't necessarily gone down.

Question: Ignorance is bliss?
Answer: It's a bit misleading, since being ignorant (meaning, not knowing something) isn't really reason to be happy. It's not like ignorant people are prancing around all jolly, saying, "I'm so happy I don't know anything!" 

More appropriate would be "knowledge can be depressing," because there are a lot of things out there that you wish you never knew.

Question: Why is the D.A.R.E program so ineffective?
Answer: Having experienced it as a child, I would say the number one reason it is ineffective is it paints all drugs as equally bad and immediate life destroyers. So when one of your friends smokes pot and is totally fine the next day/week/month you do not take what you were told seriously.

Question: Please could you help me understand the causes (historically/socially/economically) of the current Police Brutality events in the USA.
Answer: Most of the issues is widespread media saturation. Stuff like cop shootings boost ratings, not cops doing their jobs. Most cops are doing their jobs perfectly and doing their best to keep all people safe. 

That said, Yes there are some issues. Some cops take the power to their heads and abuse their powers. There are also cases where cops just act inadequately. I think a large portion of the problems stem from the issues with escalation of force. Many times cops are told that if they are in danger they can use lethal force. Occasionally they are justified, many times they are overreacting.

Question: Why do different people like different music?
Answer: So I was just wandering around Google, looking up the whole "4 chord" theory -- which suggests that there are 4 main chords that morph into the most popular and "hit" songs. I read this really cool article a few years ago discussing the science behind manufacturing "hit music" in the pop genre. I'm going to keep searching for it and edit this post if I find it.

But in the meantime -- I found [The Axis of Awesome's vid] (_URL_2_) where they sing little bits of a bunch of songs which all use the same chords.

I also came across this interesting Cracked article labeled [5 Ways Your Taste in Music is Scientifically Programmed] (_URL_0_).
 
EDIT: [Found it!!] (_URL_1_)

Question: Why is it that when I oversleep, it is harder to wake up naturally than say if I only get 4 or 5 hours of sleep?
Answer: You are waking up in the middle of a sleep cycle.

Question: Why do i wake up with a massive erection every morning?
Answer: Essentially your body has a use it or loose it principle.  In terms of its reproductive capability, regardless of your daytime sex life, it goes through what I think of as a "systems check."  The brain initiates the physiology - normal blood flow in by artery and constricting of the outflowing veins which creates penile vasocongestion, or an erection.  You'll notice that the morning erection does not necessarily go with being turned on.  It is just the mechanics of making an erection, not the hormones.  

Interestingly, there is a test for erectile dysfunction that involves placing (easy to rip) tape around the base of your flaccid penis before bed.  If the tape is broken in the morning, it indicates that erectile dysfunction is not physiologic, that is, the body is physically capable; it is something else.

Question: What causes traffic in bad weather?
Answer: It's a combination of a lot of things

- There are more cars, since less people take transportation that makes them wet. But this is only a small influence

- The average speed is lower because people are afraid of slipping

- People keep more distance, thus allowing less cars on the same stretch of road. 

- When you have an onramp, the people joinging traffic will fill the holes, causing more braking to keep that distance

Question: Why has Comcast/time Warner not been sued for a major class action lawsuit for owning a monopoly like Microsoft was?
Answer: They are only a monopoly like the power and water companies are. it would also be so expensive for another company to build all the needed infrastructure that even if they took 80% of the customers it still wouldn't be worth it. A single Node (device that makes coax into fibre) cost upwards of 5,000USD for one and you need thousands of these for a large HFC network.

Question: I know this is a bit outdated, but can someone explain Obama's Public Option to me LI5?
Answer: Right now all insurance (not medicare) is run by private companies, who earn a profit.

Obama thought it would be beneficial if the goverment also provided health insurance as a public (government) option so people could select between the two.

This is common in many European countries.

Edit: Below comments expand in a useful way.

Question: the difference between 100s and short cigarettes
Answer: The 100s contain more filter, same amount of tobacco I believe.

Question: Why can the US have thousands of nuclear warheads but simultaneously coerce other nations into denuclearization?
Answer: Most nations on the planet have signed the Nuclear Non Proliferation Treaty. The NPT says that those non nuclear states will not pursue a nuclear weapons program. In exchange, they get access to nuclear power generation technology -- and (more importantly), they know that their rivals/neighbors who have signed the NPT won't develop nukes either.

That last part is key. The main reason any country ever had a nuclear program is because a rival or enemy had nukes or were developing nukes.

As part of the treaty, the nuclear power signatories to the treaty (like the US, UK, Russia, etc) are required to take action to prevent a country from developing nuclear weapons in violation of the treaty.

Question: why is turning something off and on again the solution to basically every problem ever encountered?
Answer: It's not, but lets assume it is, and lets compare it to you giving someone directions to do something over the phone.

If you screw up enough times and they screw up enough times, it's easier to start all over than it is to try and backtrack through your mistakes.

Question: Why are there so many new medical breakthroughs in the news, but practically none of them ever become legitimate cures.
Answer: Because a breakthrough towards a cure is just one brick in the road, but it's what gets highly touted by the media because it's easy to point out.  A team of scientists working in lab conditions come up with something promising and release their findings.  Someone in the media sees this paper and turns "Disease has possible vulnerability!" and turns it into "CURE IS IMMINENT!!!1!"  What they don't say is that it will take another few years of research, plus another few years of study, then another few years to create a human-safe cure (doesn't do anyone any good to cure the disease if it kills the patient as well), and then a few more years to figure out how to produce it at profitable levels.

Question: How do Anonymous hack the systems of the government and big companies?
Answer: Think of it as a house with a 1000 doors. And hackers as locksmiths. 

By default you just need to turn the knob to open the doors, then depending on the wirewall or antivirus, you can see a brand on the door and the locksmith will say. Oh WEISER! I know hiw to crack them. An other might be an other brand that this hacker can't open but an other will. 
In the end, annonymous is a bunch of these hackers going at every door to see which one they can crack so he can open other doors to his friends who can open the door to the basement, then a room and then a safe.

So as IT managers try to better the locks, hackers will find the weakest to get through a wall then open other doors from the inside so they can get access to other doors.

Question: How did we have “accurate” maps before we had satellites?
Answer: well, we used surveying tools to mark spots on the land, and we used protractors, and pencil compasses, and magnetic compasses.

Question: How do generic or “store brands” get away with producing products, sometimes in the same factory as the name brand, that are identical to name brand products.
Answer: It is called "private label" production, and it actually occurs to the best interests of both companies. It works based on the principle that "name brands" are more desirable, so they cost more and have a higher profit margin than "store brands". 

However, the store and the producer both realize there are many people who would rather save money and buy the store brand, so they enter into an agreement where the producer makes extra product with the store's label on it and sells it to the store for less than the same product with the name brand.

This allows the name brand producer to use its extra manufacturing capacity to create more revenue, without damaging its own brand's "worth" or "image" by dropping prices.

Question: Why do innocent people need lawyers?
Answer: 1. Everyone is innocent until proven guilty. So if we concluded that innocent people don't need lawyers, that basically tosses out the 6th Amendment.

2. Innocent people get falsely convicted. It is [estimated](_URL_0_) that 4.1% of people on death row have been falsely convicted. There are about 3,000 people on death row in the US, meaning there is an estimated 120 innocent people we're going to kill. And that's with them having lawyers. Can you imagine what would happen if innocent people didn't have lawyers?

3. The law isn't about innocence and guilt. It's about knowing the law. Let's say you're wrongfully charged with a crime. Do *you* know enough about the legal process and the law to successfully defend yourself? Do you know what forms to file, how to fill them out, who to file them with and by what deadlines? Do you know all of the case law that pertains to your case? Do you know the kinds of objections you can raise and when to raise them? Do you know how to properly vet potential jurors or witnesses? Do you know enough about the law to call the prosecution on their BS when they try to pull a fast one?

 >  And as a side question, why are there no lawyers for TV judges like Judge Judy?

It's a TV show, not a real life court. She is hired as a mediator and the plaintiff/defendant have agreed to waive their right to a trial and lawyer by letting Judge Judy settle for them.

Question: . The electoral college, popular vote, swing states and why my vote actually matters?
Answer: i feel like i post this like every week...

The importance of the electorial college

The EC amplifies the minority opinion. The number of electoral votes each state gets is based on the number of representatives (based on population) and the number of senators (2 for all states). This allows rural states like Wyoming, Alaska, Idaho to have some say whereas they might have been ignored for states like NY or Flordia. This has some benefits.

It promotes unity. The president must have support over the entire states rather then just regions of high populace. Without it, a candidate would just cater to just high populace areas. A president now must try and unite the country under an ideology rather than exacerbate regional differences. With such a large country, this is vital. Most large countries have strong regional ties and distrust from those not within the region (India, China). Yes, there have been some cases where the popular minority was the winner an election (Bush 2000), but proponents claim that a distribution of votes is more important than the popular vote.

Moreover, it enhances minority vote. Since most (everyone except Maine and I think Kentucky?) states have an all or nothing approach to the electoral college, a small percentage of the populace can determine the swing of all the electoral votes.

The EC establishes the states choice for president. It has both a popular segment in addition to an equal number of electoral votes (as stated above). We value the equal representation as much, if not more than populace; the upper house is based on equal representation after all. This is the very bases of the 2 house system and our government. The same argument for removing the EC can be used to make a case for removing the senate.

Question: Why can stress make you sick?
Answer: There are at least two reasons. 

1. The parasympathetic nervous system helps build and maintain the body. The sympathetic system breaks down and harms the body (blood glucose goes up, blood pressure skyrockets, tissue is broken down, etc). If you are stressed, your body never has a chance to activate the parasympathetic nervous system, which is needed to fix and repair your body. Plus the chronic activity of the sympathetic causes damage itself. 

2. Sleep is necessary for recover, and activation of the sympathetic nervous system damages sleep quality and quantity. 

So there are at least two reasons. You screw up the repair and maintenance of the body with chronic stress via shutting down the parasympathetic system and because your sleep quality drops.

Question: How does contagion work in the European crisis?
Answer: A lot of the economy is based on *confidence*.

Let's say your brother-in-law can't pay his rent, and asks you for a $1000 loan.  If he has a good job and just had some unexpected expenses, you would say he had a good chance of paying you back...you would have confidence in him, and be more likely to give him a loan.

But let's say his business was doing poorly, and the economy was bad, and you weren't so sure about making your our mortgage.  You'd have a lot less confidence.  

Now let's say you give him the loan, and he can't pay it back.  A friend comes up with the exact same problem, wanting a loan.  You'd probably be even less confident.

That's is the situation the Eurozone faces.  Greece hasn't been able to make their rent for a while, and has been borrowing a lot of money to cover it.  Lenders are losing confidence in their ability to pay them back, and aren't lending any more money.  Greece can't make rent, so they are close to defaulting, which means the lenders would lose their money and *no one* will lend to Greece for a long time.  They won't lose their house, but they might have to go without electricity or heat for a long time.  

Portugal, Spain, and Italy *also* have been borrowing money to make rent.  The lenders, having been burned by Greece, don't want that to happen again.  So they have less confidence in these other countries, and stop lending money to them sooner than they did Greece.  So they default, and even more people are out of money.

So who are these lenders?  Everyone, not just banks.  Your pension plan bought some Greek bonds?  Poof, they are gone, along with part of your retirement.

Question: How can we know of places that have almost no human rights i.e north korea but do nothing about it.
Answer: Human Rights were set up by the UN and ratified by member states. 
The UN itself was set up to prevent another world war and promote peace, and does this by getting as many states as possible to agree to follow certain rules and by opening up a dialogue between two countries. This also includes not attacking a country because some other country feels like it.
What you have to understand is that the UN is not some sort of independent world-police. All the big decisions are made by the member states of the UN (most countries in the world atm) and they have no real army or anything like that. Their main goal is to avoid conflict and open up a dialogue between countries, governments, people, etc. 
 
Now, states signed the human rights treaties and agreed to uphold the human rights. If a country who has signed the UN Human Rights treaties violates a human right, the UN member states get together and discuss what they want to do. Mostly, it will involve putting political pressure on a country, getting them to talk with the UN and discuss options, provide help in achieving a proper human rights standard. Sometimes, it will involve allowing an attack of the country, or sending peace-keeper. However, this happens very rarely, and only in times of heightened crisis. Because the attacked country has signed the treaty, this intervention is not an open declaration of war. 
Since North Korea has not signed any UN treaties, they will not intervene.

That said, the UN has recently launched an inquiry into the human rights violations in North Korea. A quote from their website is: 
"Our key aim is to help provide the DPRK with the means to improve the human rights of its population. Our work is guided by respect for the region’s proud history, as well as international human rights standards.”
This shows the typical UN approach - working with the governments and leaders, trying to resolve issues in a non-violent way and to respect different cultures and ideologies. 
This approach is far from being completely effective and often it does involve compromising in order to satisfy powerful and sometimes insane leaders of certain countries. However, it is currently the only way we can improve the human rights situation in a country without declaring war on it.

Question: How do credit card companies force a return?
Answer: Sure, if they get a company that is giving them X too many returns (not sure what the critical mass would be) they can say "You'll need to honour these otherwise we withdraw our service".

In any on-line business that would be back-breaking and certainly a pain for off-line at the very least.

Question: What does CCleaner do to your PC?
Answer: Basically  CCleaner (CrapCleaner) removes old and unnecessary files from your system to free some space. For example old log files created by windows or all sort of temporary files.

Also you can tell CCleaner to clear parts of your browser or most of installed applications. This includes cache, history, old files, reports, saved forms (autocomplete for browser) and much more based on the selected application.

This are just some examples of the cleaning module. Just take a look for it and you see it is a powerfull and high configurable tool. There are also modules for scanning and fixing registry entries, managing autostarting applications and uninstalling software from your computer.

Pro-Tip: With [CCEnhancer](_URL_0_) you can add add more than 1000 new program detection rules to CCleaner.

Question: How do gas stations determine their gas prices, while varying in cost anywhere from 10-45 cents per gallon? While being directly across the street from another?
Answer: Same way as any other business, supply and demand.

When you see to gas stations with different prices, the high priced one might have better quality fuel, be easier to get to, a better convenience store, more pumps, or a have loyalty program.  Or maybe their supply raised prices faster, and they would rather sell less gas than sell at it a loss.

Note this is true with most products.  The main difference is unlike most businesses, you see the price of their primary product a half a block away, and can easily choose to go somewhere else.  If you have already walked into a store, it is not worth the bother to make another stop to save 45 cents on your potato chips.

Question: Why is the Reddit front page so static lately?
Answer: [An algorithmic change documented somewhere in an admin post](_URL_0_)

Question: Sunburn
Answer: Because you acclimate to the feeling. The sun doesn't burn your skin immediately on "impact." It's basically cooking your skin, at a tolerable temperature. 

Consider this analogy:

If you jump into boiling water, that shit is gonna hurt. But if you sit in lukewarm water with a heating element, and the heat turns up slowly, you will acclimate until the point it becomes unbearable. But by then, some surface damage will already be done. And boy, you're gonna feel it later.

Question: What prevents a person from lying about a degree they have and how is the validity checked?
Answer: > how can I be stopped? And how do you check to.see if someone really has a degree?

Your employer can request that you have your university send them a transcript of your coursework.  This is a physical copy of all the grades you earned for all the courses you took, and it's mailed/faxed to them directly from the university.  If that can't be supplied, then it's obvious that you're lying.

Question: Why is it socially acceptable to spend so much money on your wedding day even if you are not financially stable?
Answer: Traditionally, the wife's family(father) pays for the wedding as part of her dowry.  It's part of why you needed a fathers permission to marry his daughter.

With the breakdown of the traditional family, and changing social norms, it now rests on unprepared couples to handle it themselves.

Question: why is dimensional lumber not actually sold in the dimensions it is named (ie: a 2x4 is actually 1.5 x 3.5 inches)?
Answer: Lumber is rough cut to the actual dimensions. It is then planed to be smooth and to make it more consistent. They take off 1/4" from all sides for the smaller stuff like 2x4's and more as it gets bigger (like a 2x12). You can actually buy "full dimension" lumber which is very rough but can look nice for some outdoor applications.

Question: How does was taking long showers or leaving the tap running waste water?
Answer: If we use freshwater from reserves (such as reservoirs) faster than it is replenished, then we will eventually not have enough water to use.  

Not to mention the fact that cleaning wastewater takes energy.

Question: Cities vs City Limits
Answer: Postal addresses are just there so the Post Office knows how to deliver your things - it used to refer to which office would handle your mail.  City limits define the boundaries of political entity - the set of laws you operate under  &  who you pay taxes to.

With things like taxes  &  laws, you need to be very specific about which one's you should be paying attention to - it could mean the difference between a prison sentence and being a free man.  With mail, nobody cares if you're actually "1234 Washington St, Cityville" or "1234 Washington St, just-outside-of-Cityville" as long as the mail goes through.

Question: Is the spiciness of some vegetables (such as jalapenos and other peppers?) their method of self defense?
Answer: What makes a pepper spicy is called capsaicin. Capsaicin is increased when the peppers are stressed. Not enough water, aging, and decreasing nitrogen in the soil for example will stress the peppers. Therefore they become hotter

Question: Why is the west aligned Shia Islam, but support Sunni Islam?
Answer: Whether they are Sunni, Shia, or any other religious denomination is purely incidental. The US Government does not lend support based on compatibility with western value systems. 

Foreign relations is about geopolitical strategy, not ideals.

Question: First CBS, now Fox channels. What does Dish Network have to gain from dropping channels? Isn't it only hurting its own business?
Answer: Fox tells Dish "pay us more money". Dish says "no". Fox says "fine, then you can't show our channels". Then the two of them play a game of chicken- can Dish hold out long enough that Fox gives in and doesn't require them to pay a bunch more money for channels that no one wants?

Question: the ideomotor phenomenon
Answer: So, I'll step from the ELI5 answer, since it's been covered a bunch before and throw a crazy idea and different ELI5 answer for you. Split mindedness.

So you have 2 halves of your brain, left and right hemisphere. They both mostly control the opposite side of your body (left hemisphere controls the right side of your body, right controls left), and act mostly in unison by pushing their signals through a central bridge called the "corpus collosum". When this gets cut, however, some crazy shit happens. A person who's had it cut may go out to eat, and decide they want to order a burger. But when the burger comes, their left hand will push it away. Or they'll try getting dressed, and their right hand will grab one shirt, and the left another.

So now getting into the part where evidence breaks down, cause we still don't know why entirely this happens. The possibility that's being looked at now, and most accepted, is both hemispheres actually act independently. Your right hemisphere has it's likes and dislikes, just like your left. The difference, though, is only the left hemisphere of your brain is in any way social (the left side allows for writing, reading, speaking, understanding language, and identifying people). The right, however, is just kind of...there. 

So the present theory is that during development, as you learn to be social, the right side which initially is like a good friend kind of fades away for the more vocal and important left side. This means there's another person inside your head with their own desires and personality, but who's deaf, mute, and partially blind.

So back to the original question, which is moreso a theory than answer, it's possible if this is all true that the ideomotor phenomenon outside learned movements and in something like a Ouija board could possibly actually be the movements from your right hemisphere. 

Split mindedness/split brain theories are still new and an active area of research, and if interested I highly suggest looking into it. Cool and scary stuff.

Question: Why does every game i install on steam require the installation of that Microsoft DX thing?
Answer: _URL_0_

 >  [...]There are over 40 different versions of the D3DX library for D3D9 alone, and many more for D3D10 and 11 as well.Each game that uses the D3DX helper library is linked to a specific version.[...] Microsoft's licensing terms prevent anyone from distributing the files directly, the only way to distribute them is to run the installer, that's also the only supported method from Microsoft to check that the correct version installed.

Question: How big do waves in the middle of the ocean actually get?
Answer: 5m height (so 10m peak to valley) is quite common, but since there are many different sized waves traveling at different speeds, sometimes they come together and you get a brief but very large wave. These ["rogue waves" can reach 20-30m in height](_URL_0_).

Some things like [high speed ferries make rogue waves more common](_URL_1_) because they produce soliton waves (they're mentioned in the article, but going into the details would take a while).

Question: Why aren't humans able to stand completely motionless?
Answer: Because standing requires motion. At the very least, you need to be alive, and your heart and lungs (at minimum!) will be moving to do so. With more complexity, maintaining a standing posture requires constant adjustment to maintain balance in a system that's constantly changing (read: internal movement, muscles getting tired, etc) - the computational power and motor coordination required to do so is immense, and isn't really useful for humans beyond staying roughly still, so there's no reason for us to have evolved such an "expensive" *perfect* balancing system.

Question: Why do the back of roller-coasters experience more 'whip' as compared to the front?
Answer: "Whip" in kinematics is described as the rate of change of acceleration, also known as *jerk*.  

Since roller coasters are primarily gravity powered, the front starts going faster downhill while the back is still coming uphill.  Which means the back changes from moving up, to moving down faster.

Question: Why is old technology often painted pastel green on the outside?
Answer: If you are talking about household appliances from the 40s through 60s--that was the style. Like stainless steel is was the style from 2000 - 2010 or something.

Don't ask me what the style is now. All my shit is old.

Question: Why can console games contain and directly portay extremely violent stuff that nobody would do irl, but be very subtle on sexual content which are perfectly legal
Answer: Because for whatever reason, western society has become more accepting of depictions of violence than it has of depictions of sex.  You see the same thing in films, TV, book, and other entertainment media.

Question: why are emotions attributed to the heart instead of the brain?
Answer: Your chest can actually start to feel painful during a really emotionally traumatizing moment. I believe this is actually caused by your breathing muscles which is also why your breathing becomes sporadic Hence why they call it heartbreak. Because it feels like its your heart. This could be where some ideas of emotions being attributed to the heart while all of it is actually mental.

Question: How do chemical attacks work? ie. The one that recently happened in Syria?
Answer: Conventional weapons typically involve explosives as their payload. They explode, the pressure wave and shrapnel cause damage, but then it's done.

Chemical weapons replace the explosive payload with one that spreads a specific chemical gas into the air. Once the chemical comes in contact with a person, it reacts in some way that causes pain and/or death. The specifics varies depending on what chemical is used. The news doesn't specify which chemical was used in today's attack in Syria, but it causes airways to close and leads to suffocation.

Question: Why is it both my reading speed and absorption rate are a lot higher when reading stories as opposed other forms of writing?
Answer: Think of all the knowledge in the world as a building and rooms contain things that you know or don't know. Every time you learn something new, your brain has to find the hallway or staircase that connects that room to all the other related rooms. The ease with which you can do this depends on the proximity of the new room to all the old rooms.

Textbooks are written at a much higher lexical level than most stories. Textbooks represent a very concise arrangement of rooms within a field, but they don't necessarily share any proximity with the other open rooms in your brain. That's a lot of work to make those connections. Stories on the other hand are not information-dense. A few key details will get you a long way. The story is basically walking you from room to room.

Question: Why do some planes leave trails in the sky but not others?
Answer: It's not the plane, it's the air the plane is travelling through. The more humid the air, the more trails you get. Dry air means fewer contrails. If you see two planes, one leaving a trail and the other not, they are probably travelling at different altitudes with different humidities.

Question: Why are some illnesses such as the common cold worse after waking up before improving throughout the day?
Answer: _URL_0_

I did a google search and got pointed to this existing reddit post, and the top comment does a really good job explaining it in fairly straightforward way, albeit a slightly scientific way.

Here's the paraphrasing:

There are a couple of main possible reasons but more studies need to be done to know for sure.

 The first is that when you lay down, you change your posture and subsequently the "fluid balance" which proceeds to settle into your sinuses.  Additionally, because you're asleep, you're not consciously or unconsciously blowing your nose or any other behavior that helps clear your sinuses.  So it all just settles in there and waits for you to wake up, at which point you're suddenly very aware of the changes since you were last awake and thus you're very miserable.

The second possible reason is due to our natural circadian rhythm, which is a phrase that basically means your internal clock which means your body knows to do things based on the time of day because it learned to (thanks to millions of years of evolution).  So our circadian rhythm also dictates even our immune functions, which are powered by the different parts of our bodies that help us battle illnesses and other things.  So basically, the idea is that during the day your body's ability to fight illness is naturally at its peak simply due to our internal clocks.

Question: How is it that our bodies don't leak the smells of our innards?
Answer: Your esophagus(link to the stomach) is closed by a the esophageal sphincter.
Your other end is sealed by the anus muscle, sphincter. 

Of course you can smell it if your body lets it vent. It's called a burp and fart. Apparently, the seal is tight enough to hold in gas.

EDIT: correction

Question: Why does my mouth taste gross when I'm sick?
Answer: One aspect is the body's own immune responses. We have learned that some physiological changes experienced during illness are themselves autoimmune responses rather than directly being caused by the illness. That said, the illness can do such things as: Emit toxins (e.g. Waste matter of bacteriological infections), and cause damage to organ walls which must be repaired and in so doing cause abnormal operation of the human machine, in part causing gunk. A specific mouth feel can also occur as part of the body's immune response so as to discourage eating.

Question: In British politics, what are the politicians with 'Shadow' in their title e.g Shadow chancellor, shadow foreign secretary. What is their purpose?
Answer: They are the official opposition, so the government will have a health minister, the opposition will have someone who "shadows" that minister and in debates etc. asks questions and generally holds that minister to account for decisions that they make.

Question: what does a physics engine do? Are directx, frostbite, and source all physics engines, and what is the difference between them? And how would make a physics engine?
Answer: DirectX is a graphics interface, not a physics engine. Frostbite and Source are game engines that include physics engines.

Basically, the physics engine is the part of a virtual environment that simulates the physical interactions between objects in that environment. A basic example of this would be gravity.

One simple rule-of-thumb in gravity is that objects in freefall will accelerate constantly. So, your gravity simulation might look like this:

    if object.isInFreeFall() :
        object.Velocity = object.Velocity + 9.81 * dt;
        object.Location = object.Location + object.Velocity * dt;
        t = t + dt;

Here, the `object.isInFreeFall()` function tells you whether an object is in free fall. If it is, you increase its velocity by 9.81 (metres per square second, the gravitational constant of Earth) multiplied by the amount of time represented by a single ingame tick (`dt`). Then, you change its location by a factor of its velocity multiplied by the ingame tick duration. Lastly, you update the time (`t`) by incrementing it by `dt`.

Question: How come electrical plugs aren't hot when then come out the outlet?
Answer: Keeping it fairly ELI5:

The heat generated by electricity is due to resistance. Copper has very low resistance.

The law of conservation of energy essentially means that energy cannot be created nor destroyed. Only transferred/converted. By resisting the electrical flow, that energy must go somewhere. It is expressed as heat.

Low resistance means more energy flows as electrical energy, leaving less to be expressed as heat energy.

Question: Why do we crave certain foods?
Answer: Not a expert but I think it's just because your body knows what food has what a lot of fat/protein/carbs/calories etc. so you have a big craving for them.

For example, let's say you have a pretty bad flu bug, you are sore, tired, coughing etc. Your body wants to recoup what it lost. So you want to eat a lot of fatty foods to keep it at normal levels. Your body likes stay at a "normal"(relatively speaking) weight, %bodyfat, calorie intake/perday etc. So it is just trying to get back to equilibrium.

Question: [US] What could happen if the executive branch just ignored the judicial branch?
Answer: >  What would happen if Obama did the same thing today?

Congress would impeach him.  In record time.  

That's how the checks and balances works, if the president gets too out of line, congress can boot him.

Question: Is dangerously high volume of music as dangerous for people that has impaired hearing?
Answer: The perception of sound isn't what is dangerous, it is the impact of the associated pressure wave (what we register as sound) on the delicate apparatus of the ear. If the ear is structurally intact, then that impact can damage it whether you are able to perceive sound or not. 

In other words, whether you can hear or not, you can still blow out your eardrum.

Question: Why is Mars' core not molten anymore?
Answer: Because it is small.

It did have a molten core, even a magnetosphere but because it's small it lost heat faster. Small things have a larger surface area in relation to their mass than big things, hence when they cool down quicker.

Question: Why Does Water Soak Upwards, Appearing to Ignore Gravity?
Answer: So you understand that gravity is pulling it down. The 'problem' is that it isn't obvious what exactly is pulling the water up! 

Your answer is the capillary effect. In a very broad sense, water molecules have a negative end and a positive end. Opposite (charges) attract, so all those water molecules want to line themselves up so their positive end is next to another water molecule's negative end. 

This desire to rearrange molecules to have the neg-pos-neg-pos pattern is actually a little stronger than gravity sometimes! The molecules desire to have that arrangement pulls them up against even gravity.

Question: Why are divorce rates higher than ever?
Answer: Your perception.  Divorce rates peaked in the 70s or 80s when all the old style marriage - man works, woman keeps house, love is nice if you have it - gave way to the current focus on love and happiness.  The divorce rate has actually declined over the past few decades though it remains much higher in the south/midwest than the northeast or west coast.

Question: Why is there a dispute over labeling products from the West Bank and Golan Heights areas? They can't be labeled "Made in Israel" anymore.
Answer: Under international law, Israeli settlements are considered illegal and not part of Israel. Israel's government has repeatedly been urged to destroy all settlements and return political and judiciary control of disputed areas back to its rightful owners.

The EU voted to ban imports of products from outside Israel's internationally recognised borders, if they are labelled as "Product of Israel". Imports are not banned outright, but they cannot be called "Israeli" products if they're from the settlements. 

This, and other policies, have been labelled as anti-Semite by the ultra-orthodox establishment in Israel which has a large influence on Israel's foreign policy. Resulting in the PM basically not giving a fuck about the illegality of the settlements.

Question: How do geologists determine how much water falls from a water fall?
Answer: The same way you measure volume of water that flows down a river. You go to where you can easily determine the cross sectional shape of the river. Then you measure how fast the water is moving. Do some math involving multiplication and perhaps integration over time and there you go.

Question: Where does the average human height (say 170cm) fit on the cosmic scale from the smallest known piece of matter to the largest known distance?
Answer: Planck length is roughly 10^-35, distances smaller than this are not described usefully by modern physics. The diameter of the observable universe is roughly 10^26. However this value is constantly changing so it's less fundamental than the planck length.

Still, your height is about 26 orders of magnitude smaller than the largest distance, and 35 orders of magnitude larger than the smallest distance.

Question: How do my reflexes close my eyes before I can process what happened?
Answer: You're made aware of it *after* you've processed it. The bit of you that you're aware of, the bit you think is *you*, your conscious mind.. is actually the last link in the chain. You're brain registers what's happening, takes action *then* tells you what's just happened.

This is a great clip from a BBC documentary about free will that explains it quite well ; _URL_0_

The presenter sits in an MRI scanner with a button in either hand. He's told to decide left or right and *immediately* press the corresponding button. To him it is instant, he's thought of a side and pressed it.. no delay.

However analysing his brain activity shows you can predict which side he'd pick up to **6 seconds** before he's even aware that's what he'll choose.

Question: Why does a GPS unit require signal from at least 4 satellites in order to determine its position?
Answer: So the way GPS works is (roughly) that each satellite broadcasts its ID, and the timestamp of its internal clock.  Your GPS receiver knows where each satellite is supposed to be, and it can look at the delay in time between the timestamps it sees from multiple satellites (what with the speed of light being finite and all that) to determine its own position .

Let's imagine a 2D example.  Say that you're on the ocean in a ship at night, and a heavy fog has rolled in.  There are several bell-towers that you know the location of, and you also know that they're perfectly synchronized, but each one tolls a different pitch.  So you wait for them to strike the hour.

Now, if there are only two bell towers, then when you hear them, you can use the delay between the two bells to know how far away you are from each of them.  Let's say that you figure out that you're 5 miles from bell tower A, and 10 miles from B.  If you were to draw that on a map, you'd put a circle with a 10-mile radius around tower A, and a circle with a 5-mile radius around B.  Those circles will intersect at *two points*, so now you know that you're in one of those two locations.  You'd need *three* bell towers to find your actual position.

But with GPS, you're also concerned about altitude.  So now imagine it in 3D space:  Knowing your distance from one satellite gives you a sphere of a certain radius, and you could be anywhere on the surface of that sphere.  Two satellites gives you two intersecting spheres, which forms a circle (like one bell tower).  Three satellites gives you three intersecting spheres, which gives you two points (like two bell towers).  And four satellites narrows that down to a single point in 3D space.

So you need signals from at least four satellites to get a 3D location (and extra satellites help compensate for any timing errors).

Question: I've seen crabs living under water and also living out of water in the sand on the beach .How can they breath in both environments?
Answer: "Crabs" is a huge category with many species.  Aquatic crabs live permanently in water and have gills like fish.  They can go out of water but only for short periods, but then again so can some fish.  There are also terrestrial crabs that have lungs and live on land.  These guys can swim around and actually hold a bubble of air in front of their face, but again they can only go under for a short time.  Intertidal crabs have gills, and then also have cuticles on their legs that help them breathe on land.  They have to stay moist though and can't live away from water, but they can breathe in air or water fairly well.

Question: Why do flies and other insects repetitively go into dangerous situations, such as the exact same spot after being swatted at, are they incapable of learning?
Answer: In short, yes, their brains are just far too simple to be capable of learning like this.

A fly has very simple sense - >  action pathways. While it's possible for certain pathways to be reinforced, this isn't going to happen just from a couple of swats. It's not even clear that the fly's internal map (if it has one) would cover a large enough area to record where they were swatted in relation to where they are now.

As compensation, they have a relatively short generational period, so evolution can "do the learning" for the species as a whole. For example reinforcing that they should fly towards concentrations of diaminobutane and away from diethyltoluamide.

Question: Why do we wake up after falling down in a dream?
Answer: Dreams where you fall and die or similar deaths will trigger a response from your Brain sending signals to your body as a panic response. Think of those as "HEY WAKE UP WE CAN'T BE DEAD". 

Same thing happens when you're falling asleep and sometimes you get that reaction. Your body falls asleep faster than the brain and the brain panics and sends a wake up signal to verify that you're indeed still alive. 

TL;DR: Your brain panics thinking you died and sends wake up signals everywhere.

Question: Why do the Japanese like the USA even though 71 years ago they got nuked twice by the USA?
Answer: Because we then helped rebuild their country and became a significant trading partner for the next half century (also, don't forget that technically they started that war with us)

In general though, the speed with which the beligerants of WWII became allies is pretty historically impressive. The unification against the USSR certainly helped.

Question: Why is it easier to look at the Sun with one eye than it is with two?
Answer: the total amount of light your brain says is safe to take in is averaged across both eyes.  closing one reduces the perceived light intake to ~1/2 and said brain says, "it's cool fam you can look and not damage your retina."  but your poor retina still gets the same amount of light and damage anyway.  if you do look at the sun your retina will be like, "dude, you just burned me and now I won't work as good.  you're a dumb ass."

Question: Why is it harder to open a refrigerator door the second time after closing the door to the refrigerator before hand?
Answer: The warm air that just flowed in when the door was open cools off quickly. That makes it shrink, creating a slight vacuum. Since the fridge is not totally air-tight, additional air is sucked in and the vacuum goes away after a few seconds.

Question: SpaceX's raptor engine, how does it work  &  is it a major achievement over conventional rocket engines?
Answer: The Raptor engine is for the most part "conventional". The biggest advancement is that it runs on Methane rather than hydrogen or heavy fuel like Kerosene. 

Rocket motors measure their efficiency with something called specific impulse (measured in seconds) and Isp of 1 second means you can use 1 Kilo of fuel, firing for 1 second, while producing 1 KiloNewton of thrust. 100 seconds means you you can use 1 kilo making 1 KN thrust for 100 seconds. 

Hydrogen rockets top out at around 450 seconds while heavy hydrocarbon rockets top out near 300 seconds. Hydrogen is very light, but is difficult to store (requiring very deep cooling) and tends to boil off and evaporate through microscopic cracks. Also it is difficult to produce lots of total thrust. Hydrocarbon fuel is more stable but heavier and less efficient. It does allow for higher thrusts out of the same engine. For this reason first stages getting off the ground favor hydrocarbon fuel and upper stages favor hydrogen. deep space fuel like on satellites to mars once again switch back to hydrocarbon fuel.

Methane fuel acts as a halfway point. It is a balance between the lightness and efficiency of hydrogen and the ease of storage and thrustability of heavy fuels. Some of the implications are that the same engine can be used on most or all stages of a mission, cutting down on the costs and risks of using different engines and fuels from different manufacturers.

bonus: mars' atmosphere has a lot of methane in it (relatively) so it can be directly harvested for rocket fuel.

Question: If you are flying in an airplane and it is storming, can you get struck by lightning if you are flying above the clouds?
Answer: Lighting hits planes all the time as most of the time it just passes thru the plane
but some times it can make the plane explode.
[the plane explode ](_URL_0_)

Question: Prisoner's Dilemma In Real Life. Why did prisoners did better than students?
Answer: It turns out that people are not actually utility-maximizing robots. Who would have thought.

Question: Can we please try to keep questions in this subreddit limited to those that actually require simplified answers?
Answer: That's not an appropriate question for askReddit, which is ostensibly for more thought-provoking questions.  It would be better for something like r/answers.

Question: How has the US, which has been much more conservative towards pot than Canada, been able to make all these strides towards legalizing it?
Answer: The individual states control their own criminal law. Here in Canada, criminal law is a federal matter.  You can't have some province just decide to amend the criminal code.

Question: Why did the US colonies form separately instead of just one big colony?
Answer: In places like China or Russia, you had one power trying to subjugate the others and establish a form of central authority. The strongest kingdoms conquered their neighbors and established a unified state. (In China, it fell apart several times and was then re-unified.) The history of the colonies in America is different.

In North America, different groups came to the country for different reasons. One difference was national--the governments of Britain, France, Spain and the Netherlands wanted their *own* colonies that would benefit themselves. But especially among British settlers, each colony was also driven by different ideas. Some went to North America to develop prosperous plantations. Some went there to establish a new kind of society. Some wanted to escape war and persecution in Europe. The British crown granted each colony the right to have a limited kind of self-rule. Over time some colonies got merged, and the British conquered a lot of the foreign colonies.

Before the American Revolution, the colonies were still separate, even though they were all British. They built increasingly close relations with each other, for example they organized a joint defense during the French and Indian War. They saw they had a common interest. When they became upset with Britain, they decided to fight for independence together--different states, but all Americans, organized through the Continental Congress. Even after the Revolution it would take many years for people to see themselves as truly united. They developed a constitution that gave some power to a central government, but left most of the power with the states. The Civil War showed that the states were willing to use force to keep the other members a part of the Union. Especially in the 20th century, federal power increased a lot. But even today, people disagree about how much power should lie with the federal government versus the states individually.

Question: What does it mean when one country refuses to acknowledge the existence of another country?
Answer: & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;It depends on the circumstance, after all, what is "a country"?

 & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;At its core, a country is just the combination of a bunch of rules and the ability of some authority to enforce those rules. Let's say you live at home with your Mom  &  Dad. They have rules that you must obey, and failure to obey those rules means you get punished. Let's say one day you decide you've had enough of them, so you proclaim, "My Bedroom is now a Country."

 & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;You may have the support of your friends and neighbors, but all that really matters is what Mom   &  Dad think about that. Perhaps they humor you at first and let continue saying you are your own country -- and perhaps you continue to be a good child and still obey your parents. They give you some space and it looks like you are, indeed, independent of the rest of the house...

 & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;However, the real test of your independence is "What happens when you disagree with Mom  &  Dad?" Let's say you refuse to do your chores, and you no longer listen to your parents when they call for you... then, one morning, you wake up and see your Mom  &  Dad inside your bedroom. You've been invaded.

 & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;How could these people intrude into your country? How could they violate your borders? 

 & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;The real question: What are you going to do about it?

 & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;You are just a child inside of their parent's home. Even if you were physically strong enough to fight your parents off of your land, your parent's will call in reinforcements (police) to recognize that they, and only they, own their home. 

 & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;**However**, let's say that it so-happens that those neighbors who supported you have a lot of  power. So much power that they can intimidate your parents from acting against you and deter anyone else from supporting your parents.

 & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;Guess what? Suddenly you are your own country.

 & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;That may sound silly -- but let's say that China, Russia, and the UK all decide that your bedroom, right now, needs to be its own country. Not only are they willing to go to war to make that happen, but they will use every form of embargo, sanction, and economic influence to bankrupt the United States if it doesn't recognize the new sovereign territory of /u/DeySeeMeRollin_'s room. If faced with annihilation, it's possible that the United States may say, "Well, would you look at that! It is a country!"

 & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;Likewise, the second that the rest of the world stops supporting you, and there's nothing keeping the United States from annexing your country back into itself, then your territory no longer exists.

 & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp; & nbsp;In the end, Countries are lines in the Earth that exist so-long-as the people within their boundaries have the ability to defend them. So while Arab nations may not recognize Israel as a country, they sure treat it like one... otherwise they would find themselves in a war against Israel and many countries who **do** recognize Israel. On the flip side, you have regions like Hong Kong which are established, near-autonomous governments... yet few countries will recognize them as independent because they don't want to disturb China, which does not want it recognized as independent.

Question: Why does English no longer have a strong culture of poetry?
Answer: Perhaps the definition of "poetry" is too narrow?

I find the song lyrics of many bands and artists, and some of the dialogue of the greatest movies and TV shows, to have all of the same literary qualities as great poetry.

Just because the "poem" as a standalone expression of art is not as popular, does not mean that poetry itself is not alive and well.

Question: What happens to our bodies after we're buried?
Answer: It depends on the climate where the body is buried. In extremely dry places there have been almost perfectly preserved bodies found after thousands of years. In wetter climates, in a strong wooden coffin, it's more like 10-50 years depending on the type of coffin.

Question: when doing deep breathing exercises, why do we breath in through the nose and out through the mouth?
Answer: A guy asked my football couch back in high school why he always yelled "in through the nose out the mouth" when we ran during the start of practice. He told us one day to reverse it, half the team passed out before the first mile was done.

Question: What causes the urge to fidget?
Answer: Its a natural reaction through your nervous system little impulses and such almost like putting electricity through say a wet noodle, makes it move about.

There's also a biological and evolutionary method, basically if you sit still for too long blood begins to pool, veins and arteries are cramped and clenched... So the more you fidget the less of a risk there is for developing a blood clot. Its basically a mini survival instinct.

When its cold, fidgeting and shivering causes you to keep warm through movement and keeping your blood circulating. The reason this works is the same reason fidgeting helps you from forming a blood clot.

Question: What's happening when my muscle visually twitches?
Answer: If you mean like a spasm then it's an electrical signal sent to your muscle. Which leads to why was it sent. That is the real mystery.

Question: Why is it harder to swallow nothing in quick succession compared to swallowing liquid/food?
Answer: The muscles in your throat have to contract more when there is no food to push against, meaning each swallow involves more muscle work/movement and takes longer to complete.

Question: Why is it called an emergency brake if most people only use it for parking?
Answer: In the UK it's called a handbrake.  Although in some cars it isn't hand operated. With an auto transmission most have a transmission lock when in park so the car is unlikely to move. The foot operate brake pedal is usually hydraulic. The parking or "emergency" brake is cable operated. If the hydraulic brake servo fails, i.e because the engine has stalled, you can use the hand operated brake to stop the vehicle.

Question: How do certain items like game consoles and apple products, have a fixed price which does not differ between retailers.
Answer: The authorization to sell a product is (can be) done via contract.  Part of that contract can be that you cannot discount below MSRP, or can dictate the ways in which you can, how much you can etc.  So..if you want to sell Apple products, you have to live by their distribution agreements and policies.

This isn't a limit on competition for the price of the product (the iphone is not a competitor of the iphone, even when sold at different stores). If apple were to collude with samsung to fix prices, that would be a limit on competition.

Question: Why isn't it possible to reuse candles with the used wax?
Answer: You could take any leftover wax and reform it around a new wick if you wanted to.  But most of the wax is gone because that is what actually burns.  The wick is just a tool for keeping the fire close to the wax and for bringing the wax up to the flame like a straw.

Question: Guy Debord's concept of the 'spectacle'
Answer: It's like when someone is getting their picture taken just for facebook. The person does not act naturally but rather how he wants to appear to be. 

This translates into other aspects of life as well. The relationships to things have become represented by images in our heads -they were put their by advertising and film etc. It's like when you go camping and you feel like your in a beer commercial, or when you try to be a character you like at a party. The real is destroyed and  is replaced by a representational image. 

You should also look into Jean Baudrillard. His famous line "The Image has murdered reality" goes well with Debord. He likens our world to a story where a map is made that is so life size that it replaces the real thing underneath. Only it is not as real -it is rather more like a commercial or Disneyland. While we live on this representational map, the real world underneath begins to die. Or rather our connection to reality is cheapened and cliched and stereotyped.

Edit:Horrible grammar

Question: What causes "pins and needles" in feet and why?
Answer: It's pain from return of circulation to the nerves.  If you sit or lie in certain positions you can occlude the blood supply to a limb, or just to its nerves. 

Once circulation is returned they send out signals of distress to indicate a potential problem. When the blood has had time to oxygenate the tissues and remove toxins they go away. Flexing the area improves circulation and solves this quickly.

Question: Why is it so difficult to have automatic translations?
Answer: >  I know it has something to do with context and the different meanings of words

This is pretty much it. When you use the word "crown", how do I know if you mean a "fake tooth", "the thing that a king wears on top of his head", or "the top of a hill". It's very hard for computers to pick up on context. So if I say a phrase like, "that is tight", the computer doesn;t know if I'm talking about "something being cool" or "something that is bad fitting".

EDIT: And we don't have a limited amount of phrasal verbs and idioms. Language is a living thing, it changes all the time. This is the reason that words and meanings are constantly being added to Websters dictionary.

Question: On a computer why can the cursor be hidden when moved all the way to the right and bottom but hits a "wall" when moved to the top or left side of the screen?
Answer: because its only the very point that's your actual cursor. the rest is just a graphical representation to help the user. Thats why you can drag it "off" the right but not the left

Question: How does YouTube's auto-generated subtitles work?
Answer: Google took hundreds of hours of accurately subtitled video and fed it to a machine learning program that linked sound snippets to written words statistically. Then they had it run through YouTube matching sounds in videos to words, creating subtitles. They then flagged incorrect subtitles and fed that information back into the program. They continue to do this, refining and improving the program over time. I didn't actually look any of this up. But I'm familiar with the technology, and it's kind of what Google does.

Question: How do corporations let themselves get to the point where they need to close 10s-100s of stores and lay off 1000s? Shouldn't they scale back slowly/over time?
Answer: For large corporations 100 stores is a little at a time.  Closing stores actually costs money, it is more efficient to cut off 100 property costs at once

Question: Why do certain vibrant colours make your eyes hurt when looking at them?
Answer: Ever since the blue LED x-mas lights came out I have called them "hurtyoureyes" blue. I wouldn't even mind a ELI25 as to why they are so vibrant.

Question: Why are there different grammar/spelling rules for "It's" and "what's"?
Answer: "*It's*" actually means "*it is*" even though lots of people use "*it's*" to indicate possession.

For example, the sentence "*the dog grabbed it's ball*" is grammatically incorrect because what you are actually saying is "*the dog grabbed it is ball*" which obviously does not make grammatical sense. 

Instead the sentence should be "*the dog grabbed its ball*" - which is the correct way to indicate possessiveness in this case.

In the case of "*what's*", it can only mean one thing ("*what is*"). It can't be confused with a possessive *s* because *what* is not a pronoun. 

Therefore, if you type something like "*whats*" instead of "*what's*", that's considered more like a spelling error / typo than a grammatical mistake. It's not that you're completely changing the grammatical meaning of the sentence, you're just not typing the word(s) in correctly. Some programs may also expect you to write "*what is*" as two words instead of "*what's*" because the latter may be considered too casual/informal.

Question: Negative gearing and the Australian real estate market
Answer: Rich investors bought property via bank loans and rented them out. If rent income is more than the interest expense on the bank loan, they generate a net income and so pay tax on it. 

However, when rent is less than the bank loan cost, the investor makes a loss. When then computing their tax for the year, they can net off that loss against other income (say, from their job), reducing the tax they pay.

People get annoyed at this because of social reasons - rich investors can buy all the houses and this hurts first time home owners and in part, fuels the housing bubble/irrational pricing of houses. Its further annoying that the investors are able to decrease the tax bill on other income they earn, from these property based losses. 

Finally, it is kind of annoying because it is these particular interest based loans (i.e. the investor does not pay off a normal mortgage, but only the interest) which leads to these kinds of earnings/tax manipulations. (A normal home owner would not be making an income profit/loss on property in the same way, so wouldnt have an impact on their taxable income.)

tl;dr rich get richer. this time very much at the expense of the 99%

Question: How did the first being(creature/species) came into existence?
Answer: There is a lot of debate on the subject. And it very strongly depends on what you define as a creature. Evolution from microbes and proteins in the ocean is the answer to where larger creatures come from. Where the proteins came from is up for debate.

Question: Why do tuna  &  salmon have such a distinct taste?
Answer: I think you're a bit wrong about white fishes : some white fishes have very distinctive taste and/or texture, like ray or flounder, for instance. I think the reason we find some white fishes indistinguishable is because of the way we eat them : boiled with a lot of sauce (and then the taste we have is usually the one of the sauce, not of the fish), or as breaded fish. Eating them raw, for instance, would probably foster our taste in a more refined way.

Salmon is a special fish, which lives both in sea and river, has pink greasy flesh. You say it's easy to recognize, but would you be able to differentiate salmon and trout, or salmon trout ? They may taste the same to you, because they're of the same family.

Same with tuna. The reason you distinguish tuna from salmon from "white fishes", is probably because they're of different fish families. (white, red, pink), but not so many pink /red fishes are as available as white fishes. Should you be offered the same variety in pink and red fishes, they would probably taste the same to you as well.

Question: Why does Amazon allow users to write reviews for products they have never purchased?
Answer: If I'm not mistaken you can see if the reviewer has purchased the item or not so you can take the review itself with a grain of salt. They allow people to do this because they realize people can purchase items outside and Amazon, they want to give these people a voice as well, whether it is to warn someone or praise a product.

Question: How do surgeons prevent major blood loss during coronary artery bypasses?
Answer: It is clamped. The heart is then stopped with a potassium solution (many potassium solutions such as KCl can cause cardiac arrest, which is used in lethal injections!). The sewing of another vessel is performed, then the heart is eventually started once again.

Question: What happens in the brain when you're desensitized?
Answer: Basically, anything in your brain happens because some stimulus is fed to neurons and if the stimulus is above a certain threshold, the neurons fire and cause your response. 

If you - for example - take cocaine, your brain releases lots of dopamin which makes you feel good. However, you body "knows" that this isn't normal and tries to normalize the "feel good equilibrium" again. One way to do that, is to react less to dopamine. Which means, to get the same high you need to take more cocaine next time.

Question: Why were Milkmen once a thing in America, and why did they stop being a thing?
Answer: Milkmen have been a thing since long before refrigeration existed. You can even see it in things like "Fiddler on the Roof" which is set in the early 1900s and it was a well established job for a long time before that point. 

The local dairy would deliver milk every day to people who could not raise their own cows (such as city folk) and they would also sell things like butter to them. After refrigeration was developed the job still remained a fixture for a few decades because stores were not built to have large refrigerated and freezer sections. But after enough time passed new Stores were designed to have a lot of refrigerated stuff and people started to buy their milk from stores and the home delivery model became too expensive for the dairy to use as it used too many workers.

Question: Why do our bones crack?
Answer: Do you mean like when people 'crack' their knuckles?

If so, they're not actually cracking. It's the space in the joint expanding and synovial fluid rushing into that space. That creates the feeling and 'popping' noise.

Question: How do cats always land on their feet
Answer: They do it by simultaneously manipulating the moment of inertia of their front and back haves. SmarterEveryDay has an excellent video with slow-motion explaining this [Cat Physics](_URL_0_)

Question: What will AMD's GPUOpen allow developers to do?
Answer: Right now, drivers and applications for video cards is like the Dorothy and the Wizard in the Wizard of Oz.  When you compile or use an application, you are speaking to a giant head that only tells you things it thinks you want to know or access.  The difference from the metaphor is that you KNOW there is a man behind the curtain, but you can't pull back the curtain to see HOW he is doing things or tell him to DO things he doesn't want you to do.

GPUOpen is giving developers the ability to DIRECTLY access a lot more on the card than before.  Dorthy beelines to the curtain, whips it back, and starts pointing to specifics dials and knobs for the wizard to pull or turn. There will have to be some functions that has to be hidden (a subcurtain?) to stop people from just nuking their GPU remotely but if AMD comes through on this, we could see a lot of improvements in GPU heavy applications like video encoding, folding@home, bitcoin (lol), and of course games.

Question: Why do we feel nauseous when we watch someone else vomiting?
Answer: In the social environment in which humans developed if one member ate something poisonous then likely the others did as well. It would then be helpful to also vomit to avoid being sickened too.

Question: The concept of women "syncing up" their periods.
Answer: They don't, it's a myth.

Considering cycles range from 25-30 days and can last from 3-9 days (sometimes more) in duration, they don't actually sync up, they just gradually overlap for a time and then they go back to being at different times.

Think of it like being in the left hand turn lane. You watch all the blinkers and for a few seconds they seem to be in sync, but before long they go back to blinking at different times due to duration.

Question: Why is the NRA so powerful?
Answer: Any special-interest group (e.g. National Rifle Association (NRA), National Organization for Women (NOW), United Auto Workers (UAW)) gains power from membership.  

The more members an organization has, the more money it has to promote its cause and the more voting power it can wield at the ballot.

Question: Venn x Euler Diagram, what is the difference?
Answer: One of them is pronounced just as you expect it to be.

Question: how do auto-dimming rearview mirrors work?
Answer: It depends on what you mean by "effective".  The manual tip up mirror uses a wedge prism to either reflect almost all of the light or just a fraction from a lightly silvered front surface.  This system is totally optics, and has infinite resolution.  It's hard to beat simple physics, but it's not automatic.

The auto-dimming mirror uses electrochromism.  A special substance in the mirror, a layer between the front surface and the reflective surface, changes color from mostly clear to mostly grey when 12V is applied to it.  This layer isn't as precisely made as the LCD in your computer display, it only has one "pixel", and this can cause artifacts.  If you see a distorted image, the electrochromic layer is damaged, take it back to the dealer and get a new one.  It you just like the look of optics better, well, too bad, Marketing at the car companies likes electrochromism better.  Maybe a replacement mirror??

Question: Why isn't it possible for a counterfeit bill to perfectly emulate a real bill?
Answer: It is possible.

If you had access to every piece of equipment that the government uses to produce currency, you can make the exact same currency. They do make it extremely hard to get certain materials and certain machinery (presses for instance) that makes this hard.

Question: Why are benzodiazepines (chill pills) so bad for you, but work so well?
Answer: Benzos really aren't that bad for you, except for the addiction risk. They're particularly safe when compared to what used to be prescribed beforehand, usually barbiturates. (Mixing barbiturates with alcohol is a VERY easy way to die.) You actually have to go well out of your way to manage to OD on benzos. 

Anyway, as far as benzodiazepines go, Ativan is pretty weak sauce, so if you're only getting occasional scripts for that or Xanax and the scripts don't even have refills on them, you aren't running any real risk of addiction, so I wouldn't worry about that. 

Why hasn't anyone come up with anything better? Just bad luck. They're always trying; a drug company that could come up with something to treat anxiety that actually *worked* and didn't have any sort of addiction risk would make them literally billions in profits. You may want to check out /r/nootropics too; there's lots of GAD sufferers there always keeping an eye out on the latest research.

Question: How do hard drives/flash drives store information while they are not connected to a power source?
Answer: Flash drives work off of individual flash cells.  These can be simply thought of as little buckets that can store electrons.  When they are connected to the computer (and thus powered) they can be instructed to fill or empty these buckets and the amount of charge (electrons) in each bucket can be measured.  When disconnected from power the electrons are not allowed to move out of their bucket, so the data stays there until the device is supplied with power again.

Flash cells are cool in the fact that in many cases they aren't actually a binary device.  With many computer components you think of any given "bucket" as being either "empty" or "full," or of a line being "high" or "low," or a switch being "on" or "off."  This either/or system means that you can represent numbers as a string of ones and zeroes, which turn out to be very nice to work with at the lowest levels.  Flash cells, though, can be "empty," "mostly empty," "mostly full," or "full," thereby having 4 states.  Some cells even support 8 levels.  This approach allows one cell to store two bits of data (or 3 for the 8-state cell).  You can see flash memory labeled as "SLC" if it only uses "empty" and "full," or MLC if it uses 4 states and TLC for 8 states (these are single, multi, and triple level cells, respectively).  SLC flash is more reliable, but MLC and TLC is cheaper due to the lower number of cells needed to store the same amount of data. 

********

Hard drives work off of magnetism.  If you expose a piece of iron to a magnetic field then you can give it a little bit of a residual magnetism.  You can test this by dragging a steel needle across a magnet several times then setting it on a floating cork; this will give you a rudimentary compass.  In a hard drive instead of using a permanent magnet and a needle it uses a platter of magnetizable material and a little bitty electromagnet that can be turned on to expose a little portion of the platter to a magnetic field.  This read/write head can also detect the residual magnetic field.

Note that the platter itself which is actually holding the information is a completely non-electronic device.  The hard drive needs electricity to spin the platter so that the head can be over the right portion of the disk, and to power the electromagnet and its control chips, but the disk itself is a non-electronic device, just like the needle in the previous paragraph.

Question: Why was torture used in the past?
Answer: If you are asking from a moral standpoint, this was never a factor to the people looking for information, or to do experiments.

Physical torture, or the threat of physical torture could coax info from somebody much the same as psychological could.

And for experiments, definitely a controversial topic, but it has gotten us plenty of valuable medical break-throughs.

Question: How does closing our eyes signal to the brain that it's time to shut down (sleep)?
Answer: It's not necessarily so that closing your eyes makes you sleepy. Often it's the other way around: you feel and urge to close your eyes when you are tired and sleepy. Bu in a way it's like two sides to a coin - the two phenomena are interconnected and interdependent on eachother:

When you close your eyes very little meaningful information flows from the retinas to the brain. The stream of visual impressions stops. Quite a large part of the brain is at any time occupied with decoding and interpreting visual information. By stopping the flow the activity in the brain is diminished and this gives the brain "rest" (couldn't come up with a better word just now).

Also, as the retinas stop being exposed to light, both by closing the eyes and by the sun going down and darkness falling in the outside world, there is a signal from the retinas of the eyes, through some fibers of the optic nerve, to the pineal gland, a small gland buried deep in the brain. This signal (light has become darkness) gives rise to an increased production and release of the hormone melatonin which makes us sleepy. This is not an instant process, but happens over the course of maybe 15-30 minutes. Interestingly some people who are blind due to injuries or malfunctions in the central nervous system may still have functioning retinas that can give signals to the pineal gland through the optic nerve so that these people, even though they can't tell through sight if it's light or dark can have a circadian rythm (at least partly) that is controlled by the light conditions in the outside world.

Question: Why are Russians considered "Eastern European," when they're technically North Asians (geographically).
Answer: The western boundary of Asia, in this area, is the Ural Mountains.  Most of the major cities in Russia (including Moscow) are west of that, and therefore are part of Europe.

Question: How did we get such a gap between server's pay and regular pay?
Answer: OK let's just all relax here and remember what we're talking about.

Being a server appears easy, I agree, however being a GOOD server is much more difficult. Just like any service industry (phone support, hotel hospitality, reception, etc.) there's a massive gap between what is required to do the job, and what it takes to excel at the job. A server who shows up for their 15 hours a week for weekend beer money is putting in the minimal effort, but a server who is pouring their heart into their work does indeed have a demanding job. The difficulty is not memorizing orders, or physically running food, it's the multitasking, managing the pace of the meal, reading people and having the skills to recognize what sorts of parties will be responsive to different sales pitches, hence maximizing the income from the table, but also the enjoyment of the guests such that they return, and doing all this, by the way, while often being at the front end when things go wrong.

All of that being said, the reason pay is so much lower than minimum wage is not because the job is easy. It's because over time the gratuity, (which should be an OPTIONAL sign of EXCEPTIONAL service) became commonplace, and higher and higher in amount (5%, 10%, 15%, and now under 20% is considered, in most restaurants, to be an indication of sub-par performance). With that, waiters and waitresses were receiving a high amount of income, and were regularly not claiming it for tax purposes (though legally it should have been, so that's technically tax fraud, and most restaurants now automatically claim credit card tips since they're tracked), so legislation was passed to have a separate state-to-state and federal minimum wage standard for these industries which "relied on tips". 

But it's out of hand, in my opinion. When I was serving in RI in 2010 my hourly wage was $2.89. But my tip average was so high (because I was one of those servers who cared) that the taxes taken out of my meager paycheck were always higher than the paycheck itself, and I never once received a deposit, eventually OWING taxes come April 15th. As far as I'm concerned, server minimum wage should be increased to the same standards of normal minimum wage, and society should return to the gratuity as a symbol of exceptional service, not an expected addition to the bill simply out of necessity.  But you try and tell Society to Change and see how far it gets you...

Question: Why does weed make some people super paranoid and others not?
Answer: No, it's more a matter of how the user interprets the experience of being high than something about the high itself.  It has a lot to do with the user's state of mind going in, how they generally feel about themselves and their lives, and how they feel about the people around them.

Question: What's the psychology behind serial rape? Do serial rapists genuinely think they won't get caught?
Answer: Not an expert, but I'm going to guess that getting away with it once leads to the belief that he will continue to get away with it.

I knew a guy who was running some type of credit scam through his employer (a retailer). It began as 100 or 200 dollars. When there were no consequences, it was easy to do again and again and again. When the owners finally figured-out what was going on an who was responsible, he'd frauded more than 20k.

Question: why do pro gamers retire in their early 20's? Do your reflexes really drop so significantly that early in life?
Answer: Several reasons:

1) you don't really make that much money.  Only top players make the big money.  For every guy making over $100k a year, there are hundreds who don't.  It's kind of like the acting industry.  The top 1% of actors make huge money, the other 99% are broke.  At some point these guys realize they will never be a top player and they can make more money doing something else.

2) it not all fun and games, it is a job.  These guys play the same game every day for 12+ hours a day to be as good as they are.  Just imagine that.  It would get real boring, really quickly.  Also, they are not playing to have fun, they are playing to win.  They only get paid when they win, so there is a lot of stress to win.  Even if these guys are on contract with guaranteed pay, they are always at risk of losing that contract if their performance slips or if the team finds a better player to replace them.

3) medical reasons.  Yes, you read that correctly.  Carpal tunnel syndrome is real and extremely painful.  Using all those fine motor skills in the hand can actually damage the muscles and tendons in the hand.  Our hands were not designed to use the fine motor muscle constantly for hours on end.  Also, the pressure and constant stress to win takes a physical toll on the body.

4) games change.  Most professional gamers specialize in 1 or maybe 2 games.  After a few years, and as new games come out, older games stop getting media coverage and the prize money for their tournaments drop.  In some cases, tournaments cease to exist for that game and there is no more demand.  If you are lucky, your chosen game will have several iterations (like Halo or COD) that only have minor changes as each new version comes out.  If not, there is no guarantee that you will be as good at a different game.

5) At some point, you want a normal life.  You want to be able to date, get married, have kids, etc.  You need a stable career and free time to do this.

Question: In the Jared Fogle case, the charges always emphasize that he "crossed state lines" to commit certain crimes. Why does this matter so much?
Answer: The fact that he crossed state lines makes this a federal case, rather than a state case.

Federal courts have a few different rules and punishments and such, and a lot of resources for the investigation.  From a legal standpoint, it's a pretty big difference, since he'll be in a whole different court and prison system.

Question: What is the "Deep State" in the U.S.?
Answer: Deep State refers to the people and organizations that *actually* control the politicians that control the government.

Who/what the Deep State is depends on whom you ask.  For some it is the [Military Industrial Complex](_URL_0_); for others it is a collection of [oligarchs](_URL_1_) and plutocrats.

Others use the term to refer to the large number of bureaucrats who make policy that has the force of law, but neither the policymaker nor the policy that they come up with is from an elected official.

Like many terms used today, it has no clear, single definition.

Question: What does the Kantian phrase 'end in itself' mean?
Answer: That's not just a Kantian phrase, but it means exactly what it says. End in this context means purpose or cause. It is an end goal in it's own right. It's not a step to some other goal (means to an end). 

Art as a hobby is often viewed as an end, something people do because they derive enjoyment from it with no goal beyond that. Art as a job could be viewed as a *means* to an end. The end goal is to make money, art is how that is achieved.

Question: Why isn't it false advertising to advertise a price, to then add inseparable, mandatory fees?
Answer: They always mention the fees when advertising their price.  

Usually it's in small print.  Or if it's spoken then they say "prices starting at $49.99".

Question: Why is the alphabet in the order it is, theoretically, does it have to be in this order, and why cant it be in just any order?
Answer: There is no reason for it to be in the order it is.

There is even less reason to change its order.

Question: Why does sound seem "louder" during the night as opposed to during the day?
Answer: A few things - how much ambient sound is there at night? There are probably fewer cars and fewer people out, so with less background noise, the TV sounds louder because it doesn't need to compete anymore.

Another possibility is that in the darkness, your hearing sensitivity increases to compensate for the lack of sight. I *think* this might be an evolutionary trait (e.g. people who go blind whose hearing sensitivity improves to compensate). I believe there have been studies/experiments on this insofar as hearing increasing naturally in darkness to compensate for lack of light/eyesight.

But I think the first reason is probably more likely. My NYC apartment during the day is always noisy because of the street outside, but at night there's almost no car traffic except large trucks, and the TV becomes much easier to hear at very low volumes.

Question: Why is it that Syrian rebels who are backed by several nations are waging war in sandals and Nike Jacket, whereas ISIS, which is not known to have any strong international funding, is tricked-out with EU/US uniforms and arms?
Answer: When ISIS took a major chunk of Iraq in their initial strikes and tried expanding their Islamic state, they had taken over a key Iraqi Army base that US/British/Australian forces had left military gear intended for the Iraqi Army because it was "theater gear" (meaning it was there for the initial invasion, upkeep and further security of Iraq while those forces where there well after the toppling of the dictator Saddam Husain, and to be given to the US and British trained forces which would then inherent the gear).

Shortly thereafter, in the beginning of July, they laid siege on the Bank of Mosul in the Nivenah Providence and allotted their terrorist organization somewhere in the area of $400-million worth in gold and other financial resources, making them the richest viable terrorist organization next to Exxon and Comcast (I kid, I kid, you can negotiate with Exxon).

So... That's pretty much it in a nutshell. 
 > Religious Extremists
 > Take over the City
 > Get big city money
 > Expand arms and influence through fear and public executions
 > ISIS ATTEMPTS creation of Islamic state based on false views of Islam and become Earth's recipient of "Assholes of the Year Award".

Question: Why Hotels need your address and phone # even if you pay by Cash?
Answer: Because if you trash the room or something happens they still need a way to contact you.

Question: Does 'closing your eyes' when fatally wounded have any impact if you die or not?
Answer: It's not more of a staying conscious at the time of your death, it's literally stay with me, don't give up, please show me you can still make it. I'm not a 100% accurate on this but when a person gets an injury, sometimes it is important to stay awake for the body to not get into something - I forgot if it was shock, or something else.

Question: how do african warlords work?
Answer: >  What are their motivations?

Money and power, mostly. The details differ, for example some want to topple a government and rule the country, some have religious reasons (for example the infamous Joseph Kony), some just want luxury and women.

 >  How do they get people to enlist in their private armies?

Same way normal armies get people to enlist. You offer them money. The areas where Warlords can operate are usually very poor with weak governments. High unemployment and low wages. If working for a local warlord is the only way to get a regular paycheck (as well as pillaging) and by consequence, to support a family, it is not a hard decision.
Some may also join for revenge. "Members of that tribe have killed your parents? Hey, join me and you can take revenge!"
Also, many warlords use forced conscription. They walk into your village, tell you "You fight for us now or you die!" give you a rifle, and send you to fight somebody. When you have the option of probably dying against the warlord's enemies or certainly dying for betraying him, it's not a hard decision.
Then we have child soldiers, the worst type of getting soldiers. You take young children, give them drugs, and train them until they know no other world than one of violance and war. 

 >  How do they get financing?

Different ways. Some collect protection money from the people they control. Some may control natural resources such as oil, rare metals, or diamonds. The term *Blood Diamond* became popular due to this.
They might also kidnap people and ransom them for money.

 >   What do the sovereign state that the warlord operates in think of them?

They hate and fight them. After all, warlords are a direct threat to the country's power in its borders. However, warlords don't operate in strong prosperous nations, but weaker, poorer countries who can't always defeat them. Often (especially in earlier decades, it's fortunately getting better), the country itself was governed by a dictator who only differed from the warlords by the fact that he gained control first. 

However, there might also be countries who tolerate warlords as proxies for ethnic cleansings, attacking other countries, or something comparable.

Fortunately, as many African countries are getting richer and stabler, the potential for warlords is slowly getting smaller and smaller.

Question: Why does the dark side of the moon never face the earth?
Answer: Sometime the dark side of the moon *does* face us.  It's called a [New Moon](_URL_0_).  I believe your question is about the [far side of the moon](_URL_1_).

Question: What is an Oracle and why does it make solving the P vs. NP problem so much harder?
Answer: The oracle is just a metaphor used to express nondeterminism in an easier to understand matter.

P is the set that contains problems whose solutions can be found in deterministic polynomial time.  Just think of that as a special kind of fast.

NP is the set of problems whose solutions can be found in nondeterministic polynomial time.  There is no known fast way to find the solution, but if a magic oracle gave you the solution, there is a fast way to verify it is correct. 

If someone were able to find a fast solution to NP problems, P and NP would be the same set.  None has been found yet.

If someone were able to prove no fast solution is possible, P and NP would be different sets.  No one has been able to prove that yet.

Most people believe P != NP, enough so that most of modern cryptography is build on that assumption.  But there is a tantalizing possibility that there is some fast solution out there that would make P = NP, greatly weakening computer secuirty world wide.

Question: American Baseball leagues
Answer: The other answers have the basics covered, but I'll expand on the Minor League system. There are four basic levels: Rookie, A, AA, AAA with Rookie being the lowest level and AAA (called Triple-A in conversation) being the highest. Each Major League club controls minor league clubs at each level and uses them to develop their players. They can move any player in their organization up and down a level as they see fit, so long as they don't exceed the maximum roster sizes for each club.

EDIT: Forgot about the draft

The draft is the annual meeting of Major League teams to decide who gets to sign what young players. This may be hard to understand for someone who's not American, since I believe we're the only country where amateur athletics and education are so closely associated, but our high schools and colleges are the biggest development centers for young athletes. Once a year, the Major League clubs get together and pick, in an order determined by their results from the previous season and other factors, which high school or college players they want to sign. If a team drafts and signs a player, then they control the rights to that player for a certain amount of time before that player is free to sign with another team. This system introduces some measure of parity to the league since the worst (usually poorest) teams get to pick earlier and retain the players that they pick for a few years without getting into a bidding war with larger, richer clubs.

Question: How does drafting work?
Answer: Drive down the highway with nobody around and the radio off and listen to the wind. Then do the same thing but behind a diesel truck and it will make sense. You'll also get better gas mileage.

Drafting or slipstreaming is a technique where two vehicles or other moving objects are caused to align in a close group reducing the overall effect of drag due to exploiting the lead object's slipstream. Especially when high speeds are involved, as in motor racing and cycling, drafting can significantly reduce the paceline's average energy expenditure required to maintain a certain speed and can also slightly reduce the energy expenditure of the lead vehicle or object.

On the faster speedways and superspeedways used by NASCAR, ARCA, and at one time the IROC series, two or more vehicles can race faster when lined up front-to-rear than a single car can race alone. The low-pressure wake behind a group's leading car reduces the aerodynamic resistance on the front of the trailing car allowing the second car to pull closer. As the second car nears the first it pushes high-pressure air forward so less fast-moving air hits the lead car's spoiler. The result is less drag for both cars, allowing faster speeds.[2]
 
Handling in corners is affected by balance changes caused by the draft: the leading car has normal front downforce but less rear downforce. The trailing car has less front downforce but normal rear downforce. A car with drafting partners both ahead and behind will lose downforce at both ends.[2]
 
Similar to the "Belgian tourniquet" in cycling, the "slingshot pass" is the most dramatic and widely noted maneuver associated with drafting. A trailing car (perhaps pushed by a line of drafting cars) uses the lead car's wake to pull up with maximum momentum at the end of a straightaway, enters a turn high, and turns down across the lead car's wake. The combination of running downhill and running across the zone of lowest aerodynamic drag allows the trailing car to carry extra speed and pass on the inside of the leader.[2]
 
Drafting was discovered by stock car racers in the 1960 Daytona 500, when Junior Johnson found that he could use drafting as a strategy that helped him overcome the fact that his Chevrolet could not keep up with other cars, allowing him to win the race.[3] Like Johnson, other drivers found they picked up speed running closely behind other cars; and as they experimented they found that a line of cars could sustain higher speeds and/or use less gas (resulting in fewer pit-stops) than a single car running by itself.[2]

Question: Why is pain "painful?" Why don't I like feeling pain?
Answer: pain is bad mmkay. it's how your body lets you know something's going wrong with it. spice is the plant's defense, so it wont get eaten by animals, since they're not stupid enough to eat it twice if it burns their mouth for half an hour after.

Question: Why does it seem that the common cold 500 years ago is much more lethal than a cold in the modern era?
Answer: You...can't really ignore those two things.  Those two things are very important for modern medicine.

But *other* than those things: our diets are much better, so we have a lot more energy to fight off colds.  Food is readily available, so if for some reason we're too sick to work it *probably* doesn't mean you'll starve to death (whereas the serfs working on subsistence farms 500 years ago literally worked every day for their food).  That also means you *can* choose not to work, so you can take it easy and avoid stress that would make the infection worse.  We have also eradicated other opportunistic diseases and generally keep much better hygiene, so we don't have to worry about secondary infections that will take advantage of an immune system weakened by the cold.  We can identify infections much more quickly so if there *are* complications and the cold worsens to the point when it might become lethal, you'll get professional medical care more quickly (or, you know...at all).  We do have a few anti-viral drugs that directly assist your body in fighting off the cold.  Antibiotics don't fight viruses like the cold, but they *do* fight off bacteria that would, again, take advantage of your weakened immune system.

Um...we have temperature controlled homes, so we don't take on additional stress or the energy-drain of maintaining a healthy core temperature.  We don't live alongside our animals (see "better hygiene").

Question: Please, ELI5: Why do grape-flavored things (soda, gum, etc.) NOT taste like grapes?
Answer: I refuse to call it grape.  It's purple flavored.

Question: How software communicates with hardware?
Answer: It all revolves around a little-known yet valuable language to us computer engineers called assembly language (an industry standard is x86, you may have heard that somewhere). We learn this abstraction and the levels of organization of  a computer in our introductory architecture classes. The story is long but usually begins with an emphasis on starting at the bottom at transistors and chips and going up to higher level programming languages.

Electronics are made of tiny atomic switches called transistor. For simplicity's sake, when a voltage is applied, the transistor produces a high voltage, what we call a 1. With no applied voltage, there is no output voltage, what we call a 0. The history of logic deals with a so-called binary system, where we only deal with 1s and 0s. Now transistors can be linked together to do basic binary logic operations such as AND, OR, NOT, and XOR. These are called logic gates and are extremely important to understanding how binary logic works. We can make large circuits out of various combinations of these logic gates, examples would be adder/subtraction circuits, memory storage units in RAM, high-speed readily-available memory called registers, and selector circuits called multiplexors that select one of two or more incoming signals. That covers the basic hardware.

Now the CPU is based on what we call a Von Neumann architecture. This usually consists of three major parts. The first is called the ALU (Arithmetic logic unit), it adds, subtracts, multiplies, divides, ANDs, ORs, etc whatever inputs come to it. It's our advanced calculator within the CPU, the thing that actually processes. The second part is the memory. This is your RAM, hard disk, registers, etc. The third unit is the control unit, and this basically synchronizes the basic parts of the CPU together to work as magical clockwork. All three pieces are what our programming language takes advantage of to compute things. In the memory, RAM and hard drives are too slow for the billions of reading and writing operations done every second by the CPU. For this reason chip designers rely on the high-speed memory of registers. They're temporary storage units that operate at the same speed as the CPU. Normally there are 8-16 of these per CPU which we designate R0-R7 or R0-R15.

Now onto the assembly programming. Unlike Java, where you can simply write A+B, an assembly language breaks these steps down into simple logic that the CPU can understand. I'm not gonna show how this logic is done because that's not important. A simple assembly language instruction would be ADD R1, R2, R3. Let me break this down: The first segment of this (ADD) is called the opcode. There is a bit of specialized software called an assembler that converts the word "ADD" to a binary number the CPU recognizes such as 1001. The CPU been designed in such a way that 1001 tells the ALU to add the numbers. The second bit (R1, R2, R3) are registers. We can't tell a computer to produce or "think" of two numbers. Using other assembly language commands, we program these numbers into these registers. R1 and R2 are called the source registers and R3 the destination register. Whatever numbers we want to add are stored in R1 and R2, and the sum is spit into R3. Now we can describe how the CPU will work. Say we want to add 5 + 2. we put the binary forms of 5 (101) in R1 and 2 (010) in R2.

In the RAM, the CPU reads the instruction called "ADD R1, R2, R3." The assembler converts the ADD into 1001, which the CPU understands to "add two numbers." The control unit turns on two silicon wires that go from R1 and R2 to the ALU so the ALU now holds two numbers 101 and 010 (5 and 2). Then it turns on some other wires that tell the ALU to add the numbers instead of subtracting them, multiplying, etc. So now the ALU holds the binary number 0111, or to us, 7. Then the control unit turns on a silicon wire that spits the number 0111 into the register R3. As a final step, the answer in R3 of 0111 can be sent to memory for storage. Thus, we've added 5 + 2 = 7.

Now there are more complicated assembly instructions that do other operations like subtracting, dividing, ANDing, ORing, etc. There are operations that can jump to other sections of memory for reading other lines of the assembly program. There are instructions that process registers and clear them, loading values into and out of the registers. x86 being a modern language also has instructions that can control peripherals like monitors, mice, keyboards, and printers. But to do so, the CPU has to "handshake and socialize with the devices" and confirm that the device exists and can understand the CPU's language, similar to asking someone in a foreign country if they speak English so that you can ask questions. Software that does this is called device drivers. The BIOS is a similar system, during bootup it talks with all the different chips, peripheral devices, and the CPU to make sure that they exist and are working. All this is done in x86 assembly. Overclocking programs and processes create and modify existing x86 code in BIOS memory so that instead of the BIOS telling the CPU that "we can operate at 2.5 Ghz, lets do so" these programs twist the code so that it actually reads "wait correction, 2.5 GHz is a slower speed, we can actually operate at 3.5 GHz so let's do so." That's how your overclocking would be done, and it would happen through x86 assembly language 


Basically the magic of software-hardware transfer occurs in three places that many computer architecture engineers study: the control unit, assemblers, and advanced software called compilers, which take a higher language statement like A+B in Java and transform it into a simple assembly statement like ADD R1,R2,R3 that the CPU can read. Personally, my current job is to help design device drivers for printers. It's not complicated, all it takes is thinking in binary and logic, and a good knowledge of how a CPU's various parts interact.

Question: Why are the names of oil companies that spill oil into the ocean plastered on the news, but not the party responsible for the California natural gas leak?
Answer: The sad truth is that the BP Oil spill got mass attention because it's a much more tangible event and it harmed animals. The California gas leak is equally or worse than the oil spill but I suppose that news isn't selling. I won't say there's conspiracies but some could easily say that parent companies of, say, CNN don't find it in their best interest to demonize big oil and gas unless they can sell it on something about saving the animals.

Question: Why can't people in the US sue individual police officers like we can doctors?
Answer: The state asserts "sovereign immunity". In other words, you can't sue the King (or the King's agents, etc.) unless the King agrees to let you. We don't have a King, but our government retains sovereign immunity.

There are many times you can sue the state even when it doesn't want to let you. Exceptions to sovereign immunity have been carved out of many laws and are commonplace, but one place it is not is in the exercise of police power.  It makes good sense for this to be so, or everyone who was arrested would sue, and the police force would be unable to operate.

Typically the redress for issues with police misbehavior is through the ballot box, not the court system.  The police are accountable to elected authorities, who can, will and do force them to alter their behavior and in some cases waive immunity so a lawsuit against truly egregious behavior can go forward.

Question: How can a 600W PSU supply 50 A on 12V, while the electrical wires in the wall would literally burst into flames at 50A?
Answer: A power supply pretty much conserves power, give or take a few losses.

So the output power is 12 x 50 = 600W, as advertised.

The input, from the wall, is at (say) 120V

So the input current is 600/120 = 5A, well within the capacity of a standard 15A domestic circuit.

Incidentally, the wires would not burst into flame at 50A, you would simply blow a fuse or pop a breaker. The whole point of fuses and breakers is to prevent this sort of fire.

Question: Why do spots stop hurting after we remove the puss from them?
Answer: For those of use who might not be aware, 'spots' is a term that aussies and brits use for pimples.

Question: When and why did basketball hoops become such a staple for American driveways?
Answer: Basketball is the second (or third depending on the poll) most popular sport in the US. It is easier to set up a hoop for simply play and practice than it is to get space to play football or soccer, and far less than practicing baseball (even with a batting or pitching cage). This means it is a common recreational activity for active/semi-active families.

As for when it became popular. That would have been in the 50s-70s during the boom of suburbia. Cities would have public parks with full courts available, suburbia everyone had a driveway.

Question: Why isn't Robert E. Lee viewed as a traitor?
Answer: He probably gets let off the hook for being reluctant to go to war and rejection of his military life after the war.  He became president of then Washington College (Now Washington and Lee University) and said his greatest mistake was a military education.

Question: How Britain and America went from what could be described as bitter enemies to what could be described as best buds?
Answer: both countries have a deep shared cultural heritage that has proven to be a powerful unifier, overshadowing the brief periods of conflict and hostility that could have resulted in longstanding resentment. solidarity between the United States and the three major Commonwealth countries was further reinforced by entry of the United States into WW1 and WW2 as an ally nation. these two in combination has resulted in a special relationship that isn't experienced by, say, France, lacking the same cultural heritage.

Question: Stereotypically speaking, why do men play baseball and women play softball?
Answer: It's not a stereotype, it's a fact. When kids are young, often girls will play baseball. But as they get into high school, almost all of them switch to softball (mostly because it is required). Then, when middle-aged (or younger or older) people (men and women) play recreationally, they generally do softball because it's less intense and physical.

The sports are very different.

Baseball, you always wear pants, the pitcher throws overhand and can throw breaking pitches, there are only nine players on the field, and so on. In softball, the pitcher delivers underhand (and in slow pitch, the ball must arc). The ball is much larger and does not travel as far, the bases are closer together and the pitcher's rubber (there is no mound) is much closer to the plate, and sometimes the players wear shorts which generally prevents them from sliding.

Those are just a few of the differences... but as you can see it determines the physicality of the sport. Why specifically/historically softball and baseball both developed in high school and collegiate leagues I do not know.

Question: How are sex change operations done?
Answer: There are graphic videos on youtube if you're really brave.
Both male and female genitals start off as the same set of organs, as you grow in the womb, these organs are acted on by your genetics to become either the penis/testes or clitoris/ovaries etc. The structures being somewhat similar lets some be "recycled" during the operation. 

Some people choose to have hormone replacement only and never an operation, everyone is different.

Male to female involves removing testes and the internal structures of the penis, turning the skin of the penis inside out to create the interior of the new vagina, with the tip of the penis being fashioned into a clitoris.

Female to male transitions are sometimes accomplished with hormone replacement only, which stops the menstrual cycle, and increases the size of the clitoris.
Surgery uses a flap of skin from the arm or elsewhere on the body to create a penis

Question: when the moon comes up, it's gravity is strong enough to rise the tide. How come small particles don't go flying as well?
Answer: Probably the biggest thing to understand is that the moon's gravity doesn't create the tides "all in one go".  As the Earth rotates, the pull of the moon has a constant very small effect that over time builds up a sort of standing-wave front that we call the tides.  It's the cumulative effect that causes the tides, not the 'instantaneous' gravitational pull.

Question: why are Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome so much better than Internet Explorer? What are the big problems with Explorer? If I have good anti virus software is there really a difference?
Answer: Historically you would be correct about IE being a bad browser. But it you use the Modern ones they are pretty equivalent to Chrome and Firefox. They all have add-on's to varying extents. They all confirm to standards pretty well.

Question: why prosthetic limbs cost almost twice as much as a car
Answer: Supply and demand. Money doesn't really have any "real" value, all the prices you see are imaginary, so to speak. That's why diamonds, for instance, cost so much. It's not that they have some kind of actual value, it's just that people are willing to buy them at a certain price, and the seller, seeing as people buy them, obviously continues to sell them. Ideally, one wants to work/spend as less as possible and to gain as much as possible. This idea is widely practiced and it has lots of very unfortunate consequences around the world, but that's another issue altogether.

Question: Why aren't there any HUGE bugs?
Answer: I believe that the reason for that is still under debate! though I could easily be wrong as I am basing this off of a discovery channel documentary I watched once, but there are 2 limiting factors that are likely culprits:

- the strength and mass of exoskeletons. at a certain upper bound they are no longer able to support their own weight. this bound exists in animals with internal skeletal structures as well, though I believe it is higher

- their respiratory system, which is less efficient. from what I remember a higher atmospheric oxygen level allowed bugs to be much larger in the past. 

- whoa these bullets are square

-

Question: What is the point in hiding scores for comments for a certain amount of time?
Answer: People are most like to read only the first few comments...which are more likely to be upvoted...which are more likely to be upvoted...resulting in a kind of avalanche.  People are also more likely to upvote comments that have already been upvoted.

Vote hiding attempts to counter this.

Question: Why our voices sound so different than what we think they sound like
Answer: When something 'makes' a sound (a tree falling, or lightning striking), it does so by causing particles to bump into each other, then those particles bump into more particles, etc etc outward in all directions until they bounce off something.

When you speak, the thing making the sound is your vocal cords vibrating. Other people only hear the sound that is created as the wave passes through the particles in the air.

You, however, also hear the sound as it moves from your vocal chords through the solid/liquid mass inside your own head.

Question: What happens if someone needs an ambulance during a snow storm and the roads aren't plowed?
Answer: ambulances are extremely heavy and so are great on driving on bad roads compared to regular cars, but at some point with a bad enough storm the answer is 'you wait and maybe die"

Question: Why can't you fight dementia by training your brain?
Answer: You can, to an extent - it has been shown that (for example) bilingual people and people who keep their brain active can fight off the *effects* of dementia for longer. 

But a lot of types of dementia (like Alzheimer's disease) mean your brain is *physically* shrinking, and parts of it are lost forever. At some point too much of it is gone for you to be able to work around.

Question: The myth that humans only use 10% of the brain. How is it incorrect?
Answer: When you point at something, you only use 10% of your fingers.  Obviously, that doesn't mean only 1 of your fingers is functional, just that your other nine fingers aren't needed for that activity.  Also, it doesn't mean using 100% of your fingers to point at something would make you "better" at pointing, you would just look like a weirdo trying to cast some kind of wizard spell.

Question: What did the developers of HTML5 do to make things so much faster?
Answer: Nothing.

HTML is just a set of instructions telling a browser what it should display. There are different versions of HTML, the latest one being HTML5, but the differences between them are mostly a matter of a few new instructions (browsers are designed to ignore instructions they don't understand, so older browsers will still make an attempt to render an HTML5 page), and maybe some minor changes to the syntax.

How fast a page renders in a browser depends on how fast your computer is, how fast your internet connection is, how well-written your browser is, and what sort of content it's being asked to display (too many graphics will slow down a browser quite a lot).

If you're talking about HTML5 *video*... technically, there isn't actually such a thing, but for marketing reasons that's what it's been called. HTML5 has a new tag which instructs the browser to display a video. Previously, the only way to do this was to use a plugin, usually the Flash player; HTML5-conformant browsers now have a video player built-in, so they don't have to go through the whole business of firing up a plugin, a process that can take... well, a second or two, let's be honest: it was never a big deal. This video player can use a codec that can be easily compressed, meaning you have fairly high quality video with a smaller file size, so it's more likely to stream better.

That, at least, is the theory.

Question: Tips Dividing
Answer: You need to explain your question better.

30% of $100 is $30. You got that right.

I'm not sure what's supposed to happen in your second equation.

Question: Why is it so bad to drink ocean water, even for those who are on the verge of dying of thirst?
Answer: They say drinking seawater will drive you mad but it will dehydrate you  &  make you more thirsty because it contains salt. Also your kidneys can have a job processing that amount of salt.

Question: How are fake identities created?
Answer: I've known someone who was born in England and was sued through no fault of his own, then lost his council apartment as he couldn't afford the rent and then was made homeless... in England if you are booted out of council accommodation that's it you cannot get help again. Basically his life was in complete ruin and he couldn't see a way out.

He took out as many loans as he could, 3 phone contracts, as many payday loans as he could and cleared out what little he could out of his bank account and left it overdrawn. He then wrote a suicide note in his apartment for the bailiffs to find, left the country and flew to Poland, from there he traveled by hitchhiking and bus elsewhere in Europe, (Romania I believe). Scraped a small section of skin off of each finger (to slightly alter his finger prints) and then after a few years immigrated back to the UK with a new hairstyle, some minor plastic surgery and a different appearance in general. As far as I know he is now quite successful and leads a pretty good life. It wasn't easy immigrating back as far as I understand though but he did say he wouldn't have been too heartbroken if he had to stay in Romania as it was a better life than he had previously.

Question: Will human colonization of other planets ever be possible?
Answer: Look into Elon Musk. The Founder and CEO of SpaceX. He said in June that he has concrete plans to colonize Mars in 15 years. If anyone else on Earth said that I'd instantly write it off, but Elon Musk is seriously a super human. One of those people that literally comes about once a century. 

He is known for having the genius of Nikola Tesla, the marketing chops of Thomas Edison, and the industrial intuition of Henry Ford.

He founded PayPal, which made him a billionaire when he sold it at 31 years old . However, he was already worth over $300 million after selling his first software start-up at 28 years old.

Its what he did next that will impact humanity for centuries to come. I'm fully convinced that our great, great, great, great grandkids will be forced to learn about Elon Musk in school just as we learn about Thomas Edison.

He founded SpaceX , and successfully took space flight from an absurdly expensive and novel government enterprise to a viable, profitable, and useful private enterprise. SpaceX developed the rocket that NASA now uses for payloads. Elon Musk's capsule docked at the International Space Station last year; the first ever commercial company to do so. 

Besides creating an entire new industry by profitably accessing space and beyond he also founded Tesla Motors. In fact, he is founder and current CEO of Tesla Motors, SpaceX, AND SolarCity (the largest residential solar installer in the U.S.). 

[Here's a superb article on this super human](_URL_1_)

He's been in the news recently because he is Founder and CEO of Tesla Motors. With zero industry experience he entered the auto industry, which is also a particularly well insulated industry [(recent and related article)](_URL_0_). He was considered naive by industry insider's, and you can't blame them. Building and marketing a traditional vehicle, much less a revolutionary electric vehicle, is a skill that would take most people a lifetime to master. So how's he handling it?

Tesla Motors stock is up over 450% in the last year. The latest Model S received the best safety rating of ANY CAR EVER, and won the coveted "Motor Trend Car of the Year Award" in 2013. 

This has all genuinely shocked the industry. Imagine the logistics and knowledge it takes to RUN an auto company, much less INVENT one from scratch. Then, realize that he is currently CEO of not just Tesla Motors, but also the CEO of SolarCity, and a space rocket company. Oh, and he has 5 kids. 


If Elon Musk says he has concrete plans to colonize Mars within 20 years. I genuinely believe it. There's 7.1 billion people that could say the same statement, and I'd laugh, but Elon Musk is truly something different. 

The more you find out about him the more you think he can't be human. At first I figured "OK He founded a few companies. He's a good business man. Plenty of those to go around".

But when you look deeper this dude didn't just found PayPal - he MADE PayPal. He doesn't just invest his way into companies he MAKES companies. 

Specifically, his goal is to guide humanity to a new age. Solar panels, electric cars, space exploration, colonizing freaking Mars. Only now does it hit me he IS human, he's just from the future. I would gladly give this guy a trillion dollars just to see what would become of it.

Question: what is physically different from a "normal" brain and a psychopath's?
Answer: The term 'psychopath' refers to a large array of behaviors, which do not necessarily correlate to brain differences. Some people may behave differently based on their upbringing and experiences, for example. However, some brains do function differently than most human brains, and we know a small bit about this.

To start, human brains are composed of a large number of parts which work together (and against each other, at times) to form our consciousness. Some parts of the brain perform different functions, like vision, memory archiving, and abstract processing.

The amygdala is the fear center of the brain; trauma or injury here can make people more or less afraid of things. Sometimes, the amygdala can be intact but not functioning. We don't know why this is, and this is the case for a lot of mental disorders.

People with schizophrenia and Alzheimer's often have brain-wide tissue shrinkage, so there can be large differences in actual brain structure. However, to answer the question, *sometimes there are large brain differences in people with mental disorders, and sometimes there aren't.*

[Here is an MIT lecture on brain disorders.](_URL_0_)

Question: Why is communism bad?
Answer: Everyone gets everything equal in a communist society. Except those at the top who are usually corrupt and get lots. Also nobody is motivated to do anything since the outcome is the same. Its not bad in theory as we all want equality, however it fails when actually applied because of human nature. We need to be motivated and rewarded for our work. But its not really a "bad thing", just one way of running things which doesn't work so well.

Question: How does aspirin, ibuprofen, and acetaminophen work? How does it know where the pain is? (Example: Headache; Back pain; Leg pain; etc.)
Answer: Aspirin and Ibuprofen belong to a group of drugs calls NSAIDs and with regards to pain, decrease pain by inhibiting COX enzymes. The COX enzyme increases inflammation (and therefore pain). Acetaminophen, whilst not being an NSAID is postulated to work in a similar fashion.

The drugs don't know where to work and are transported through the blood stream all over the body. Where ever the COX enzyme is, the drugs will act on it (hence side effects). In areas of inflammation, certain COX enzymes are higher in number.

Question: What makes an MR layout car more likely to oversteer?
Answer: Think less about the weight transfer, and more about where the weight is in relation to the tires.  On rear-engined cars the engine weight is out past the rear tires, and so when the cornering car decelerates, the side force of the engine weight is applied to the rear tires alone, which increases their slip angle, too (this decreases available traction.)  When you decelerate, think of that as a backwards force acting on the center of gravity.  But the car is also rotating, and that rotation is carrying the mass of the engine outside of the line the center of gravity is tracing, and trying to rotate the car further.  And the further it steps out, the greater the force it creates trying to rotate the car, which increases slip angle, which decreases available traction, and I think you can see that viscous circle. Rotation increasing, traction decreasing, rotation force increasing. That is your snap oversteer.

A good practical way to visual this is to put a pencil on the desk in front of you, pointed directly away from you. If you flick the pencil on the eraser, it moves straight away from you. If you turn the pencil slightly to one side, but still flick directly away from you, the more the pencil is angled, the more of your flick that goes into rotating the pencil and less into moving it away from you.  The force of that rear engine is your flick. If it's inline with the direction of travel, no big deal.  That's not so true when the car has rotated to a tail-out attitude.  If you apply the flick further up the pencil, the initial rotation decreases the further forward you apply the force.

Question: Why Are AMEX cards not allowed to be used as much as Visa and Mastercard?
Answer: Well I have a business and the fee isn't really the problem if I'm being honest; business owners will say it's the fees... but it's bullshit. That extra percent isn't going to kill most businesses.

The real reason? Chargebacks. AMEX will process them for virtually any reason. You bought a laptop from me and thought the blue color would be lighter? Bam... refund, keep the item. Unless you habitually chargeback, and even then AMEX will let you do it a whole lot, you'll get a refund for any reason.

Accepting AMEX means I risk giving away every item sold with AMEX. The good majority of AMEX holders also have some sort of Visa/Mastercard, usually a debit card at least. So the couple sales I'd lose is negotiable, most just go "I'll pay with another card".

Question: why we sell gas by the volume but not mass, unlike in avionics and auto racing?
Answer: Planes and race cars care about how much weight they're moving around as it has a significant impact on performance.  A plane needs more power to get more weight off the ground so extra mass is a problem for it if you happen to fuel it on a cold day

Passenger cars don't care as much about added mass, and people know they have a 10 or 12 or 15 gallon fuel tank, not a 64, 96, or 128 pound fuel tank.  We generally measure liquids by volume not mass, you can see this with baking instructions too

We also don't meticulously temperature control gasoline.  Put it in a big underground tank and it'll stay around the same temperature all year long.  Even if it does go through temperature swings, it doesn't change in density that much.  At 0C gasoline is 1.8% denser than at 15C, and at 30C it is 2% less dense than at 15C, that's not a huge swing

Question: How and why do things get preserved in amber?
Answer: Amber is basically tree sap. Bug or animals chilling out near tress have some of it fall on them or they step in it and get stuck. The amber surrounds them and keeps them there. 
 As far as getting preserved they are kept away from reactants, i think oxygen is the big one,  which stops them from decaying or being broken down over great periods of time. Its like a can of food. It lasts forever becuase they are sealed up from everything outside.

Question: Tone curves in digital photography/photoshop.
Answer: There are different [color tones](_URL_0_) (I don't know if this is the right term since I am German, but anyway, that's not important). This picture, although it might not be scientifically totally correct, really helps to understand the tones: The different tones are red, blue, green, yellow, purple, and so on. Tones can differ in brightness: Colors more in the middle of this circle are brighter, but have the same tone as colors more on the outside in the same position.

When you change the tone, you turn this circle slightly: blue turns purple, purple turns pink, pink turns red, and so on, of course it also works in the different direction. Note that for example in Photoshop the tone is a number between -180 and 180, with 0 as default. That's the amount of degrees you turn the circle (+ or - means clockwise or counterclockwise), which makes sense, since 360 degrees is a whole circle. 0 wouldn't change the tone at all, 180 (or -180) turns a picture into its negative (since 180 degrees are exactly one helf circle).

Usually you don't want to change the tone much, since it would turn colors odd, like humans green or the sky red.

Edit: Wait, did I explain something wrong? I might have confused some terms while translating them... :(

Question: Why can I barely hear a siren when I'm driving and it's right behind me but they always wake me up in the middle of the night from far away?
Answer: Probably because in your car there's engine noise, road noise, and music, while at night it's quiet. Could that be it?

Question: How is medicine developed? Basically how do we know which compounds will help with a certain disease/condition?
Answer: There are several ways to go about making a new drug.

1) The easiest is to take an existing drug and change it slightly. This is how whole classes of drugs exist. If you know the chemical structure of a drug that already works, you can experiment with changing it and seeing what happens. This is how we get newer "designer drugs" where existing chemicals were expertly altered to either enhance potency or diminish side effects.

2) Another way is straight trial and error. Pharm companies have huge rooms of stock chemicals and compounds and whole divisions of scientists who, once they get a stable animal or laboratory model of a disease, will just start taking drugs off the shelf and seeing if any of it works. This is how many on the treatments for HIV/AIDS were discovered. If something works, we then try and figure out why. Often we don't know, there are a lot of drugs we use commonly with "mechanism of action: unknown." 

3) A newer, but costly method, is advanced computer modeling. We now have limited capability to computer simulate the action and structure of enzymes in the human body (often the target for drug action) and knowing this we can simulate what chemical compounds in theory would block or enhance these enzymes. This is working backwards, instead of working with an existing known compound, we first figure out what would work in theory, then go invent the compound.]

4)Sometimes we start out making a drug for one thing, and find out an unintended effect that means we can use it for something else. Pfizer didn't make viagra for boners. It was testing classes of vasodilators for Anginal chest pain. Turns out, viagra and the like are shitty at relieving chest pain, but the test subjects wanted more because of all the great bonners they were getting in the trials. 

Side effects are established all along the way. Drugs go through extensive animal testing first to determine metabolism and toxicities. Then they go through human trials in 4 phases. Phase I is the drug is given to healthy volunteers in first very small amounts then larger. Blood and urine are measured to asses for metabolism, drug levels, and any side effects here are noted. Phase II is the drug is given to a small amount of people with the actual disease to establish minimal effetive doses and possible treatment regimens. Is 5mg enough, 10mg? Maybe better to give in the AM or PM? Once a day or twice? Then Phase III trials are larger, multicenter studies where the drug is given to a large population (several thousand) with the disease and also tested along side a placebo, the point is to prove the drug works better than nothing. As with phase I, any side effects are noted*.

Phase IV is aftermarket surveillance. New drugs on the market are closely watched for side effects not reported in other phases. Even if a blood pressure med is tested on 10,000 people in phase III, it will be prescribed to millions of people for a lot longer time, a large population that cannot be adequately studied with a small group of testers.

*Its also common to put down anything symptom or sick wise that occurs to the patient in trials as a "Side effect". This is why those lists are impossible long and always have stuff like headache and nausea. Testing a new drug for 6 months? Have a random headache in that 6 months? Well can't tell if the drug caused it or not so its gonna be reported as a side effect. That's a hard part of new drugs is figuring out what are the real common side effects and more importantly, the super rare but super dangerous side effects (google Stevens-Johnson syndrome if you dare).

Question: how could major body changes evolve in small steps?
Answer: Your point hinges on the fact that the intermediaries are detrimental, and that is inherently false. Your argument is common, though usually the eye is used as an example. 

Every step in between non-existence of the organ and the fully functional version we have today had some use, or did not provide a major disadvantage. Evolution is all about survival and reproduction - if a parent survives, it can pass mutations to its children. A frilly lizard born without legs will probably not reproduce, and will die; a frilly lizard born with an extra frilly frill may consume extra energy to sustain its extra frilly frill, but if it is a strong frilly lizard, the extra frilly frill is not enough to stop it from surviving. Eventually, extra frilly frill may indicate a strong frilly lizard - all the weak frilly lizards with extra frilly frills died because they couldn't compensate for the extra energy the extra frilly frill consumes.

As for your examples:

Lungs - I'm not exactly sure, to be honest, though I'm sure someone who studies this for a living would know. Calling /u/Unidan 

Wings - A small raptor was born with extra skin flaps in its "armpits". It didn't affect the raptor's ability to survive and reproduce, so it got passed on. Eventually, the trait gets more and more accentuated, until the flaps catch enough air to slow down freefalls (they can jump off of higher places without getting hurt). From there, gliding; after that, flight.

Water to Air - Take a look at amphibians

Cells to Egg - I don't think I'm qualified enough for a good response on this one either

Egg to Birth, Meat - Same. These are all questions that would deserve their own post in /r/askscience.

Question: The tax system (in broad terms) and why do we have to pay taxes on property we own, like houses or inheritances.
Answer: You have taxes to fund the government and the various services and programs it provides. Property tax is commonly used to fund schools. Inheritance is not a tax on property you own, you did not own it your family member did. It is a tax on the ownership of that property changing hands. The purpose of this is to limit the massive accumulation of wealth in the hands of a few families over generations. Something that can and will happen given enough time.

Question: What is a pentaquark?
Answer: A pentaquark is a combination of 5 quarks (or multiple quarks and antiquarks, but they still add up to 5).
Quarks are subatomic particles smaller than the electron, and make up protons, neutrons, and other larger particles, called Hadrons. Quarks cannot exist alone, and must "partner" up in groups of 2 or 3. When quarks form particles in groups of 2, they're called mesons, and when they're formed by 3 quarks they're called baryons (like the proton and neutron). A pentaquark is significant because it shows that quarks can combine in ways that have never been observed. 

On a fundamental level, quarks, hadrons, and leptons (electrons, muons, taus) make up all visible matter, and this discovery helps us to learn more about how ordinary matter is made.

Question: biologically speaking, what is laughter? Is there some kind of chemical involved? If you can get past the animated facial expressions and the breathing, is there a way to objectively measure how hard someone is laughing?
Answer: Not sure about the second part of the question, but here's a good response from a previous thread:

 >  Laughter is thought to have first evolved as a response to fear. After encountering something potentially threatening and then discovering that it was harmless, early humans would laugh as a means of reassuring others.

Question: How did those guys get stuck in the cave in Thailand in the first place?
Answer: Ok, so the group has traveled into that cave system a few times in the past. Decided to go again this time round. Usually it's safe to visit before the rainy season arrives but unfortunately a rainstorm came early and flooded the entrance of the cave, trapping the group inside. More rain, more water, so the group had to move deeper into the cave to find higher ground or risk drowning.

Question: Why the US prefers NASCAR to Formula One
Answer: NASCAR drivers work insanely hard to appear like "one of the guys" to their fans.  In reality, they kind of are.  Most drivers work their way up from driving go-karts on local tracks (again, full of NASCAR fans) to small stock cars to the big time if they're good enough.  

The cars themselves are made up to look close to normal off the street "stock" cars, even though everyone really knows they haven't been stock for decades now.

In short, American racing fans identify more with stock car racing than F1.  Of course there are Indy fans here, but NASCAR did a much better job of growing its fan base in the 90s.  The Indy split didn't help their cause.

Question: Why is it that if theres a parking spot with snow, its a lot easier for cars to go in than to go out? Shouldnt it be the same?
Answer: You have inertia going in. Plus, the wheels compress the snow as they go over it. It often turns to ice when this happens, forming a ridge of ice the car has to bump over to get going again. Ice has almost zero friction so you can be stuck with each wheel in a little cup barely 1/2 inch or 1 cm deep. Hence the commercial about carrying a bit of cat litter with you to throw under the tires when that happens.

Question: Is my green the same as your green?
Answer: Everyone is going to say nobody knows, which is true. But just to break it down a bit...

You really need to define "see." When you think about what your brain is visualizing when you look at the screen, there are essentially two steps: the light hitting your eyes, and then your brain interpreting the light. Strictly speaking, if you define the light hitting one's eyes as "seeing," then (as far as I know) we do all see the *same* color. If we got an eye transplant, we should perceive the same exact colors; which makes sense, because we are interpreting the same wavelengths of light.

However, if you define "seeing" as being what your brain interprets the wavelengths as, then there's no way of knowing. The only real test would be if we could isolate the portion of the brain responsible for doing those interpretations, and transplanting/modifying those. My guess would be that we *don't* see the same colors, because everyone's brains could develop differently; and even if they do, there's always the possibility for mutation.

You could use this same analysis for all five senses. When you hear an instrument, does it sound the same to everyone else? Is "hearing" when the sound waves hit your eardrums or when they go to the brain? Is taste when the chemicals hit your tongue or when they go to the brain? Same process for each.

Question: If everyone knows California is due for "the big one" earthquake along the San Andreas fault. Why do people seem to not care?
Answer: Because in California, nobody gives a fuck about shit

Question: How do bankers actually make our economy better?
Answer: Essentially, the entire role of the banking industry is to collect money from people with it, and distribute it out to enterprising people that need money. 

If done correctly, everyone, the saver, the bank, and the entrepreneur profits from the venture. Everything financial that you mentioned, from the stock market to the hedge funds, exist just to find new ways to make money for those three groups.

No, the system isn't perfect, and is rife with abuses, but without it there'd be no long haul trucking, new construction, or new businesses, just to name a few. Without a doubt, the ability to move around large sums of money is a cornerstone of the world economy. 

An example: Think of the economy like a vehicle. The savers are the gas tank. They have lots of money (gas), but don't really have anything to do with it. The engine on the other hand, wants to move the vehicle forward, but lacks the fuel to do so. In come the banks, like a fuel pump system, moving and managing the flow of gas, timing things properly so that the vehicle can continue to move forward.

Question: How come when I'm drunk two eyes are screwed up but closing one eye allows me to see just fine?
Answer: Being inebriated impairs your depth perception, the coordination of both eyes working in unison.

Question: Why are there no national/state 911 apps (in the US)?
Answer: There has been. E911 system has been specced for years.   But not all dispatch centers have upgrade their systems.   The FCC has a timeframe at 2020 for full completion.     

And to add, even if the dispatcher got the address, cops wouldn't be there to help her.    It'd take 5-10 minutes average in cities.   In random lake or something expect more than 15-30

Question: What prevents some one from changing monetary numbers in a banks computers to get rich.
Answer: Do you mean what stops a hacker from entering the bank's records from outside and altering them? Or what stops a bank's employees from altering the records from inside.  THe answer to the first is some excellent security.  Basicly the inner workings are never accessible even through the banks website.  What you are seeing is merely a copy or false face of the actual records.  So in the case of a mismatch the bank defaults to the back end copy that can never be altered. 

In the case of an internal employee the answer is internal controls.  It normally takes 2 people to do just about any significant action so you would have to get someone else in on it. Then all actions are tracked and reviewed, so you WOULD get caught, and the penalties are severe.

Question: What happens in your brain when you take psychedelics?
Answer: For the past year, I've been following people's descriptions of what they experience when taking psychedelics and attempting to correlate it to my understanding of how the brain works (after a degree in neuroscience). First, you must recognize that the way you construct the present world in your brain is via concepts. For example, when you see something, your brain uses what you see (points, lines, curves, colors, etc.) to derive the concept of what you're looking at. **simply put: psychedelics disrupt the brain's ability to formulate concepts.** In this manner, vision is affected on a processing-level and concepts come into perception in a way that is inaccurate. Hence, they appear as hallucinations.

This is also true of thoughts; when people begin thinking of things, those concepts which they are attempting to bring into conscious perception also arrive distorted. Such concepts include notions regarding the self, including the fact of having a physical form. For this reason, people on hallucinogens can experience a transcendence and feel that they have left their body.

**Essentially, the brain has trouble bringing accurate facts together while still trying to make sense of things.**

With psychotherapy, this concept distortion can be taken advantage of, such as with the use of psilocybin which you alluded to. When a concept (neuronal ensemble) is activated robustly enough, it can become more easily manipulated (plastic). Given that the brain in the psychedellically-intoxicated state has trouble forming accurate (typical) concepts, a person's notion of self can be modified into something different. With the proper contextual setting, it can be possible to channel the thoughts used to derive a concept and thereby redefine simple concepts to abstract notions of oneself.

Given that psychedelics effect the ability to form concepts, if an overdose occurs, it can be anticipated that a person's ability to form concepts can be permanently effected. Such an individual would appear, in many ways, autistic (non-savant); unable to determine the appropriate way to act, categorize things, or make decisions.

I wish I could give you cold hard facts but I cannot (most of this information is based on my theory of how psychedelic function) but if you're interested in the technical details of what is going on in the brain, I'm happy to elaborate.

Question: Are paper toilet seat covers (aka ass gaskets) really more sanitary than naked seats or just another example of humans being wasteful?
Answer: Chances are, there's nothing particularly hazardous on the seat itself regardless. A toilet seat is not a hospitable place for bacteria to hang out. 

If anything, they're a peace-of-mind device.

Question: How exactly do hacks work in online gaming?
Answer: Most hacks involve either finding where an app stores data,  and modifying that data,  or decoding how an app communicates with a server and spoofing that communication. 

Unless the game is played with zero input from the player, then it is impossible to stop hacks,  but you can make them harder to do, through the wonders of encryption. (This will also,  generally,  slow down communication between game and server)

The most secure option is to have the game app just stream data from the server,  and store none locally,  but for many games,  especially real time games, this requires far too much bandwidth.

Question: why do pictures taken with very good cameras show so much detail that we can't see on our own.
Answer: Imagine you have a grid that is 10 boxes high, and 10 boxes wide. In total there are 100 boxes. If you were to try and draw a perfectly round object, it would be difficult. There would be jagged edges. 
 
So you take each box, and divide it into 10 boxes high by 10 boxes wide... each single original box is now 100 boxes. This means you have 100 X 100 or 10,000 total boxes. Now you try to draw a circle, and it doesn't look half shabby...

Our eyes have a certain number of "boxes" we can resolve too, depending on how far we are from something. Some camera are able to capture more light than our eyes, and can map that light to a grid of EXTREMELY small boxes. They capture so much detail that you can zoom into one box or region of the picture, and it is still enough "definition" to be considered "3d resolution" by our eyes.

Question: If we can have 5" 1080p displays why can't we have 20" 8k displays?
Answer: No one has demanded such a thing (i.e. mobile devices with this resolution), since 8k content is more of a novelty, "this is the future" thing right now, while 1080p is the mainstream standard.

~~It'd be 10", btw - as the screen is measured diagonally and it's "4 times bigger" as in 4 1080p screens arranged in a rectangle. It'd be perfectly possible to make a 8K 10" tablet by that logic.~~ was thinking about 4K.

Question: LUCA: A giant supra-organism that broke into three and created all life on earth?
Answer: LUCA stands for *Last Universal Common Ancestor*.

As far as scientists can tell, all life on Earth is related. Distantly related, but related. You're relatives with single-celled bacteria -- if you could go back far enough in the family tree, you could find an organism that both you and the bacteria descended from.

When two living things are related, they have certain things in common. If you find something two living things have in common, you can feel pretty sure that they're related somehow, and whatever their common ancestor is probably also had that trait.

So scientists looked at all kinds of different living things on Earth and looked to see what they had in common. In particular, they looked to see what kinds of proteins they all had. It turns out they were able to find a nice chunk of stuff they all have in common. These proteins are in you, in amoebas, in algae, in *E. Coli*, in redwood trees, in mantis shrimp, in vampire bats, in mosquitoes, in Galapagos penguins -- in every single living thing.

So they figure that the last ancestor that everything has in common had all these proteins. So then, to figure out something about that ancestor -- LUCA -- they looked to see what those proteins do, and used that to guess what LUCA was like.

Their guess is that LUCA was made up of cells, like all life today does, but in a kind of really primitive way. It was able to get energy out of different kinds of chemicals. It was able to reproduce itself, but not in the controlled way that living things today can with DNA -- it used a simpler kind of chemical called RNA to encode its genes, which works but not as precisely.

Because of how simple and crude LUCA was, their guess is that all the cells had to share everything to survive. Since they were all working together, in a sense you could say that all the LUCA cells on the planet were essentially one organism, since they weren't competing against each other.

Eventually, of course, LUCA evolved. It didn't "break into three" exactly -- pieces of it just evolved separately and became the ancestors of the three main kinds of living things we have today: bacteria, archaea (which are kind of like bacteria, but different enough that we know they evolved separately from bacteria), and *eukaryotes* (everything else -- plants, animals, fungi, et cetera).

Question: Why are some defenses not allowed in court?
Answer: When someone says "That's not a legal defense" they're not saying it's not allowed, they're saying that the defense won't absolve you under the law.  "I was running late" isn't a legal defense for speeding, but that doesn't mean you can't try it.  It just won't work.

Question: Why can't we clone endangered species to rejuvenate their population?
Answer: As /u/FixBayonetsLads said, it wouldn't produce diversity. Lack of diversity means the population would die out much more easily.

There's also more risk for genetic mutation, i.e., Dolly the Sheep (link at the bottom). Dolly was the first mammal cloned from an adult cell, however, her telomeres (sort of caps on the ends of a chromosome that control aging) where much shorter that normal, causing her to age more rapidly and die young. If this couldn't be corrected, animals would have less time to breed and repopulate. 



_URL_0_

Question: How / When did SCOTUS judges become so partisan to predict a decision on the basis of party appointment rather than on the merits of each case?
Answer: They're really not as partisan as people make it seem. However, they are human. The constitution and laws have a lot of ambiguity to them. People are going to interpret certain things differently-

 > If Supreme Court Judges are as partisan as everyone else they shouldn't be given lifetime appointments.

The founders thought the opposite. The idea is that if you have a lifetime appointment, you don't need to make partisan votes in order to get re-elected. You can tell your party to fuck off, if you disagree. If you have the ability to be replaced, you don't have that freedom.

And what's to stop Congress from just replacing a conservative judge with a new conservative judge? Not much. That's basically how Congress gets elected now, and they are far more partisan.

 > When non-SCOTUS judges are elected, how possibly can they remain impartial?

The short answer is they aren't. Ideally, they do the best they can, and you try to make sure you vet them heavily before allowing them onto the court. There's no magic way to find someone who isn't political. The job is inherently political.

The check/balance on this is that if it gets bad enough, judges can be impeached. Also, both parties in congress has a lot of power in screening(or making new laws), so that tends to moderate judges quite a bit (and worst case scenario, if congress screws up, voters can vote them out). If voters don't vote them out, the founders figured that means it doesn't bother them that much.

But just to emphasize, for the most part, even though they tend to vote on "party lines" (and keep in mind, the big cases in the news tend to be ones where there is a split- there are many that are unanimous), generally speaking, they do have a coherent ideology , even if you don't agree with it.

edit:
In addition, precedent matters a lot. If Scotus decides "x is legal", it's incredibly hard to over turn that-they almost never reverse themselves. They're very very away that if you say "x is legal" and it benefits one party today, it might be the other way in the future, and they've put themselves in a box. That is a huge check on their power.

To give a recent example, a big part of the recent ruling by Judge Robart putting a stay on the immigration ban- relied on the decision to prevent Obama's immigration changes a few years ago. It really can come back to bite you in the ass, and the Judges are not so partisan as to not be blatantly inconsistent (for the most part)

Question: How does Impulse = deltaP if Pf = Pi
Answer: The bullet changes momentum, as does the block.

The bullet changes it's momentum by
ΔP = (230-350)5x10^-3 =-0.6 kgm/s

The block changes it's momentum by ΔP = (1.20-0)500x10^-3 = 0.6 kgm/s

Total change in momentum of the _entire system_ is zero (momentum is conserved). However, the bullet "gives" some of its momentum to the block, which is the impulse.

Question: What's the affordable care act?
Answer: Please search.  [This fine explanation](_URL_0_ ) has over 4000 upvotes.

It is working, in the sense that some uninsured people have insurance.  It has also had many unintended consequences, mostly that plans which people liked were cancelled and many people have seen their health plans cut coverage to avoid "Cadillac Plan" taxes.

Question: Why was president Andrew Johnson impeached?
Answer: Politics


He was elected as a unity pro union democrat VP for Lincoln then Lincoln was killed.

He was pro south and didn't care about punishing the south or 
upholding the rights of freed african-americans like the republican congress wanted.

He was impeached for violating an unconstitutional law the prevented him from forcing Lincoln's cabinet secretaries to resigning. It was a trap. He just survived not being convicted by 1 senate vote, which may have involved bribery on both sides.

Question: If a person has lung or stomach cancer, why can't the affected organ simply be removed?
Answer: Doctor do remove those organs sometimes as part of cancer treatment. There are serious side effects, but it's worth it to not die of cancer.

However, a malignant cancer will eventually spread through the blood or lymph vessels and infect other organs. At that point, removing the lung or stomach won't eliminate the cancer, since it has seeded itself all over the body.

Question: Roe vs. Wade
Answer: the only thing you really need to know about roe v wade is that it granted the right to an abortion as a fundamental right

Question: Why do brittle things, like lead on the tip of my mechanical pencil, seem stronger when shorter?
Answer: Comes down to leverage, a longer piece means you can apply force further away from the breaking point, thus multiplying the force applied.

Question: how do phone card codes work? I know you punch in a number to call, but how does it bypass your phone carrier so you don't get charged by them too?
Answer: You dial a toll free number first to connect to the company that issued the card, then you type in the code and phone number to tell them who you are and who you want to call.

Question: What is the difference between delusions and hallucinations?
Answer: A hallucination is a sensory thing. You can see, hear, feel or I suppose taste something that's not actually there or the direct result of a stimulus on a sense organ like the eyes, ears, etc.

A delusion is a belief that clearly disconnects with reality. If I think that the KGB has tapped my phone because I see people in red jackets regularly that'd be a delusion.

One can be aware their hallucinations are not real, and therefore are not deluded. One can be deluded without having a direct sensory issue like hearing voices.

Question: Do the rubber "bristles" on certain toothbrushes actually have a positive effect on teeth cleanliness?
Answer: Those are not intended to get your teeth clean, but to stimulate your gums.

Question: Why does pressing in a X with your fingernail make a Mosquito bite stop itching?
Answer: I thought I was the only one that did this

Question: Is "sleep debt" a real thing?
Answer: Yes and no.

Yes, if you sleep too little, you'll feel bad and incur various bad effects on your body and mind, and and an increased amount of sleep later can be necessary to get back to your full capabilities.

No, this "debt" is not quantifiable and computable objectively in numbers. It's not the same for everyone, people have different sleep requirements, and they change (at 20 you can tolerate a sleep deficit much better than at 40). Also, the effects are not linear, not completely reversible, and not continuous - getting only half the necessary sleep is more than twice as bad as getting only 3/4, a bad sleep deficit can do permanent damage even if you sleep enough later, and the bad effects may be unnoticeable for some time until they cause a sudden complete breakdown. 

As an extreme example, if you don't sleep at all, to the best of our medical knowledge, you will die within weeks.

Question: How do impartiality laws work and are things like Twitter moment subject to them?
Answer: Laws vary hugely by country. What country are you asking about?

Question: The United States immigration process
Answer: Getting a Visa gets you into the country. There are different forms of visas, depending on why you actually came (work, student, travel, etc.). All must be maintained, and can be rescinded for bad behavior. Once your Visa expires, you're forced to leave.

Once you have been in the country for 5-10 years (depending on what your Visa is), you are eligible to file for lawful permanent residency (LPR), which is what the green card is. At that point, you can live and work in the US without penalty, but you don't have the privileges of citizens. 5 years after you get LPR, you are eligible to become a citizen.

It should be noted that the hard part is getting LPR; once you have LPR, you're essentially set so long as you don't do something worthy of deportation. Going from LPR to citizenship isn't particularly difficult.

Question: Why is it easier to remember the items on a few short lists than it is to remember the items on one long list?
Answer: Mostly because of chunking: which is a mnemonic device (in simpler words, a way of remembering things easier). Chunking basically means that you remember things placed in groups (‘chunked’ together) better then when it’s one larger thing.

Question: why can't we breed up animals for the sole purpose of using bits of them for our own use? ie we breed cows just to eat them why can't we breed elephants just for their tusks and other things, or whales for their meat and other things
Answer: Why can't we breed pandas? Why don't they procreate?

Because some animals have a very hard time procreating in captivity. No matter how much "breeders" try to recreate their natural habitats, these pandas still feel constricted and aren't in the mood to procreate.

For domestication in general, there are half a dozen generally accepted criteria that a species needs to fill for us to consider that said species actually can be domesticated. It includes things like docility, diverse diets, rapid maturity, social structures...

Question: when to use past vs. passed.
Answer: Past when you are talking about time. Passed when you are talking about objective or distance.

e.g. "It is *past* my bedtime!"

e.g. "I *passed* the test!"

e.g. "You just *passed* the exit."

Question: How do people solve murders?
Answer: Yeah they also use your post and search history on websites like this and Google. Don't do it man just watch forensic files and first 48

Question: How do you die in a wildfire if you know it's coming?
Answer: Fires can move fast.

Like, *really* fast. 60-70mph is not uncommon.

A very big fire essentially creates its own weather. With hurricane force winds whipping it into a massive firestorm. Fires can also "jump" large sections of land riding on the wind. If you aren't careful or if a fire suddenly shifts directions you could very quickly find yourself surrounded.

Question: What's SRS and why does everyone hate them?
Answer: /r/shitredditsays

Because people see them as manipulating votes on subs they link to, acting aggressive and confrontational, and constantly railing against reddit despite being (obviously) part of it. Also, because, frankly, most redditors don't care one bit about what they have to say.

Question: Can you hear your own voice internally or externally more loudly? Why?
Answer: Your own voice in your head (and body) is louder that your own voice that you hear externally.  This is known to anyone that has ever heard thier own voice in a recording.  

However you hear your voice when you speak or sing is NOT how others hear it.  There are lots of acoustical dynamics going on when you hear your voice such as resonance, depth, and sympathetic vibrations that no one hears except you.

2nd part:  I don't know what you mean..

Question: Why does an MRI scan have no effect on the iron in your body?
Answer: Because the iron in your body isn't actually iron as such, the iron atoms are bound with other atoms in molecules, which changes their properties. Same thing as with hydrogen. Flammable on its own, not flammable when bound with oxygen (i.e. H2O, water). Iron on its own is magnetic, iron bound in molecules is not.

Question: how do people in Vancouver afford 1-3 million dollar houses that would sell for half the price anywhere else in Canada ?
Answer: Basically, you don't.

Only people who make more than 60k a year live in Vancouver proper. Everyone else lives in the suburbs, like Burnaby or New Westminster. Middle class people who make 50k-80k before taxes can rent a multi-bedroom place in these areas or even a small house. People who make less than that just spend most of their income on rent and have room mates, with 2-3 couples sharing a house.

Question: Could a woman take testosterone supplements while pregnant to increase the chances of the child being a boy?
Answer: No.  Sex is not a hormonal issue, it's a genetic one.  Your sex is determined based upon whether the sperm cell that fertilized your mother's egg had an X or a Y chromosome.  No amount of testosterone will change that.

Question: How do insects have such strong grip?
Answer: Because insects have a proportional larger surface area than volume, where volume equates to weight and surface area is proportional to muscles which equates to more strength. Also insects have "hooks" in their legs that allows them to stick to rough surfaces.

Question: Why the microwave has to be closed to start working?
Answer: Very little would happen if you operated a microwave with an open door. Microwaves are notoriously hard to get into the food that you're trying to cook, which is why most microwave ovens have a rotating tray, to try and align the food with as many microwave paths as possible. If the door were open, the energy would dissipate almost immediately. On Mythbusters, they once tried to make a microwave "gun" with the magnetrons from three microwave ovens, but were unsuccessful, even with that amount of overkill.

Sticking your hand into an operating oven, though, is a different matter, so better safe than sorry.

Question: Why does the United States have more prisoners per capita than any other country?
Answer: While this is an extremely complicated question,the most significant contributing factors are "the war on drugs", mandatory minimum sentences, and three strikes laws. These function to incarcerate people for what would otherwise be considered less serious offences.

Question: Why is the VA (Veteran's Administration) so dysfunctional and inefficient? What are the reasons for the current scandals over patient care?
Answer: A large part of the problem is a delay in transitioning to a computer-based system, coupled with a massive number of veterans.

There are currently over 20 million veterans.  For each of these, the VA needs to keep complete records regarding past service, medical issues, financial options, disability...  And those are all kept in paper copies.  Here's a good picture of about 0.2% of the records: _URL_0_

The military has only recently transitioned to a computer-based record system for active duty members, so the VA's system will be faster for future veterans.  In the meantime, in order to transition to a computer-based system, all of those 20 million records will need to be scanned in and digitized by (already overworked) VA employees.

As for the current scandals, most of the VA hospitals are over-worked as well, resulting in long wait times.  Certain people made the decision to hide the unsatisfactory wait times from the official reports.  Extremely long wait times for medical care are viewed as unacceptable, especially for veterans, which has caused the huge uproar.  (As an aside, one thing the military has taught me is to never hide anything from the chain of command.  The highest person with the secret gets in the most trouble.  If nothing else, hiding an issue will ensure it never gets fixed.)

Question: How can drug companies put instructions and warnings on the back of their tablet packaging (like ibuprofen and aspirin) for how many someone should take at a time/within 24 hours etc. when everybody has a different body weight/size?
Answer: If a medication isn't fat soluble, then your body weight will have little effect on how it's absorbed.  Particularly with painkillers, they're concerned with liver and kidney damage - and the liver and kidneys don't vary much in size.

Question: Why isn't Edward Snowden protected under the Whistleblower Protection Programs?
Answer: * First, the government says, he did not expose the kinds of actions covered by whistle-blower protections — illegal conduct, fraud, waste or abuse. 

* Other officials have argued that the programs revealed by Snowden are illegal or unconstitutional. For now, they are presumptively legal, given the assent of members of Congress and the special court known as FISA that oversees intelligence operations.

But suppose Snowden’s supporters are right, and what he exposed was illegal conduct after all.

* Then he would face a second problem: The Federal Whistle-blower Protection Act protects the public disclosure of “a violation of any law, rule, or regulation” only “if such disclosure is not specifically prohibited by law.” 

In other words, Snowden could claim whistle-blower protection only if he took his concerns to the NSA’s inspector general or to a member of one of the congressional intelligence committees with the proper security clearances.

_URL_0_

Question: What exactly causes the "seeing stars" effect when you blow your nose too hard?
Answer: When you sneeze, your facial muscles tense up, putting pressure on your eyes. This increased pressure causes the sensing cells on your retina to misfire, causing what your perceive as spots of light. You get the same effect by just pressing on your eyes with your fingers

Question: Why does a li-ion/lipo battery explode when shorted out?
Answer: The lithium atoms can crystallise and form a chain, that chain can short circuit the poles and it is this short circuit which can cause a fire. -  _URL_0_

Question: why is genital skin always darker than normal skin?
Answer: Copied from askscience:

 > The expression of Androgen receptors is greater in melanocytes located in the areolas and genital area. Thus, Androgen stimulation promotes the synthesis of melanin and pigmentation in these areas.
This is a relevant paper: _URL_0_

 > There are other hormonal stimuli that promote melanogenesis and their excessive activity causes excessive genital pigmentation (e.g Addison's disease causes excessive synthesis of POMC/MSH).

**ELI5 translation:** The chemicals that turn you into adult also make you darker. The skin at your genitals reacts more from those chemicals. We evolved this way likely to protect the areas more from harmful sunlight radiation.

Question: Why don't we rebuild ancient structures to there former glory rather then leave them as they are?
Answer: Partly it's because we're not 100% sure what their former glory was, and are worried that if we were to rebuild them that we'd get it wrong and thus ruin an important part of human history.

Question: Why can you feel nauseous when you wear polarized sunglasses?
Answer: Visual information goes to part of your brain that also gets balance information (brainstem gets visual and vestibular inputs). But 'polarized' glasses alter the incoming visual information, so any conflict or differences between these inputs (visual and vestibular sensory conflict) gets percieved as nausea (or any number of other vague, uncomfortable sensations: dizziness, vomiting, etc).

Question: Why is it "Ladies and Gentlemen" and "Boys and Girls"? Is there a reason for the order and the difference in order when addressing different ages?
Answer: They're called frozen binomials; like how we say "pots and pans" not "pans and pots".

It has to do with syllables (smallest to largest), complexity of the word, and what just rolls off the tongue easiest.

Some argue a gender bias, but for every "man and woman" binomial there is an "aunt and uncle"; for every "boys and girls" there is a "mum and dad".

Question: Why does light have speed? Why isn't it instantaneous?
Answer: The speed of light is the speed of causality. It is the fastest speed by which any event can affect anything else in the universe. It is also the defining property of the universe that gives rise to time.

Let me explain.

Imagine a clock. This clock is made by holding two perfect mirrors exactly parallel to each other and bouncing a photon between the two. Every time a photon hits mirror A, one tick has happened. This is our photon clock, and it is a perfect measure of time.

Now, let's say the photon bounces up and down and you can move the clock left and right at any speed you want. Even light speed.

Now, let's take for granted that light moves **ONLY** at light speed. I'll explain why we can do this in a second, but for now, just accept that.

If we move the clock, the photon now has to move diagonally to bounce between the mirrors. The photon's absolute speed must be equal to C, the speed of light. This, we could imagine as the hypotenuse of a right triangle. But, in order for the hypotenuse to be C, the X and Y velocities must satisfy X^2 + Y^2 = C^2 (the Pythagorean theorem). Thus, in order for C to be the speed of light while X is not 0, Y must be less than C.

This means it takes longer for the clock to tick. The faster you go, the bigger X gets, meaning the smaller Y must be and the slower time goes. This is Einstein's Relativity.

I bet you can see where this is going.

If X = C, then Y *must* equal 0 or X^2 + Y^2 =/= C^2. In layman's terms, anything going the speed of light *cannot* experience time.

So, if you were the photon, your trip would be instantaneous. You own clock would never tick.

But, for us, we are the product of light-speed particles moving back and forth and interacting with each other. We are a ticking photon clock. Time is an emergent property of this.

Now, consider what would happen if light was faster or slower. Our own perception of time, which is entirely dependent on the speed of light, would accelerate or decelerate by the same amount. If light was 2x as fast, we'd think 2x as fast and our clocks would tick 2x as fast... which means we'd see it cover 2x the distance it would per *old* clock tick, but our *new* clock ticks are 2x as fast. 2/2 = 1. No matter how fast light goes, we, by definition, must see it go *exactly that fast*, or else we don't experience *any* time at all.

It is also for this reason that light speed is constant to every observer. If you go faster, your clock slows down by an amount that keeps your perception of the speed of light constant.

Question: How did societies enforce the law before police were a thing?
Answer: There were always enforcers, members of the tribe that enforced the rules, they just didn't have job titles.

Question: What's the difference between a President and a Prime Minister. What's the difference between a Congress and a Parliament?
Answer: The difference between them is who chooses the leader of government.

In a presidential system, the people elect both the members of the legislature (congress) and the president independently, and the president is the head of the government.

In a parliamentary system, people elect the members of the legislature (parliament), then the members of parliament choose the prime minister, who is the head of the government. Many countries with parliamentary systems also have a directly elected president who serves as head of state (they meet with foreign diplomats, for example), but they don't have as much power as the president in a presidential system, like this US.

The Prime Minister in a parliamentary system is like taking the Speaker of the House in the US and giving them a lot of the president's duties.

Question: Taiwan and China's relationship in the past and now.
Answer: Taiwan used to be a small native-held island, in China's sphere of influence but not considered very important. In the 17th century or so, Chinese colonists started showing up. When Japan gained control over the island in 1895, a majority of its inhabitants were (Han) Chinese. After World War II, Japan gave the island to the Republic of China.

The Republic of China was the Chinese government formed in about 1912. They lost a war against the People's Republic of China (the current government of mainland China), and now rule only the island of Taiwan. 

Both governments claim that they *should* own both Taiwan and mainland China. This used to be a huge diplomatic issue, but it has mostly calmed down; both sides have made it clear they don't want to attack the other. There's still some tension, especially since China has prevented Taiwan from being recognized as a country in most international affairs.

Question: do we lose our imagination or do we suppress it as we get older ?
Answer: Neither, really.  Some people maintain very active imaginations for much of their lives.

However consider *why* a child has a need for a greater scope of imagination.  Much of their world is still a mystery to them.  They might know that something works a certain way, but they don't know how.  So perhaps that little light in the refrigerator is indeed turned on by a tiny and very fast moving elf.  Maybe that shadow in the dark hallway is really a monster.  Maybe the old guy next door is Santa Claus in disguise the rest of the year.

Children have active imaginations because it helps them to come to grips with the world around them.  As you get older and you come to understand the 'reality' behind your environment, the things you imagined as a kid become nonsense and are discarded.

Question: Why are clothes hangers not shaped like human shoulders?
Answer: They are designed to be in the shape of human shoulders.

From the Wikipedia page on clothes hangers;

 > A clothes hanger, coat hanger, or coathanger, is a device in the shape of:

 > * **Human shoulders** designed to facilitate the hanging of a coat, jacket, sweater, shirt, blouse or dress in a manner that prevents wrinkles, with a lower bar for the hanging of trousers or skirts.

Question: Why are we so concerned with wealth inequality/disparity in the US?
Answer: I think that for most people, just knowing someone in an office earns millions of dollars a year while they work just as hard to scrape by with $30K a year irks them.  Very few people are happy in the knowledge that they have it better than their grandparents did while watching the ridiculous wealth and privilege that's glorified on tv, movies, tabloids, etc.  That, and too many people are not happy with what they have - commercialism and consumerism are bred into us from day one in the US.  We're constantly told that we 'deserve' a new car, that our life will better with a bigger tv, etc.  It's brainwashing.  You hear it every day, and it works.  We want more.   

In terms of politics, it has to do with the idea that money buys influence.  Elected officials are supposedly there to represent ALL Americans, but when the same 1% of the country represents such a large portion of your campaign funds, who are you more likely to please once elected?  The millions of people who may or may not have voted for you or were too lazy to pay attention to the election at all - or the people who gave you an assload of money to get elected?  The same for lobbyists.  If you or I want something changed, we make phone calls, write letters, maybe start a petition.  Will the official ever even hear our pleas?  Will a few phone calls or letters matter?  Now imagine if a few CEOs of major corporations want something done.  Their wealth can buy the services of any of the nearly 12,000 lobbyists in the US.  Last year, they spent $3.24 BILLION to influence policy.  I know for a fact I didn't contribute any of that $3.24 BILLION dollars directly, so they aren't going to be representing my wishes.

Question: How do astronomers calculate when and where an eclipse will occur, and how total it will be?
Answer: The earth, the sun, and the moon all have very predictable orbits.  The earth is slightly tilted and the orbit of the moon around the earth is also slightly tilted which means the moon crosses the plane between the earth and the sun every once in a while.

The earth takes 365 days to orbit the sun, the moon takes 27 days to orbit the earth, that means the moon passes between the earth and sun 13-14 times a year.  Because the orbit of the moon is tilted it doesn't always cross in front of the sun, sometimes it crosses a bit to the left or a bit to the right, we only get a solar eclipses when it passes down the middle

All of these orbits are very consistent and predictable.  The ancients knew when solar eclipses would be over 2000 years ago.  Having computers just lets us spit out the eclipse schedule for the next millennia in an hour, but the math has always been known

Question: US army/navy/air force numbering systems
Answer: It's all sequential. It starts at 1 and goes to 2, 3, 4, 5 etc... When the U.S. goes to war it expands the number of units activated to fill up every number sequentially. When the U.S. leaves a war or downscales then it gets rid of most of its units except the ones with historic or glorious lineage. That's why units like the 101st Airborne are still around.

Question: Why are colossal (eg. Godzilla) things depicted as moving so slowly?
Answer: As things get larger they may appear to move slower, but that is just because they are far away. Godzilla would be walking much faster than an insect could fly, but not in comparison to its size. If it was matching speed to size it would probably be breaking the sound barrier.

Question: How much of a given generation’s Social Security benefits are paid by succeeding generations in the US?
Answer: it's a continuously revolving system.   money in, money out.   the working generation pays for the retiree's.   problem is...in recent decades, there's more retirees than workers and the trend is going to be even more retirees than workers.   

social security is not an investment vehicle.   it's a wealth redistribution from young to old.

Question: The difference between a wireless access point and a network switch
Answer: Think of a network switch as a telephone operator.  When you pick up a telephone, and call a number, the telephone operator will connect you to the number you want to call.

A wireless access point is like the base on your wireless phone that is connected to the phone switch.  It allows your wireless phone to make calls.  When you use your wireless phone, it connects to the base, in which the base is connected to the telephone network.

--

TL;DR:  A network switch will relay data between two computers connected on the switch. A wireless access point connects a wireless device to the network it's connected to.

Question: what is going on when you feel a tickle on your skin like a tiny bug is moving on you but your closest examinations reveal nothing is there.
Answer: There are very tiny nerve receptors in your skin if two or more of them are stimulated at the same time you get this sensation, sometimes the bug moved before you saw it, sometimes it can be dust or other debris, sometimes it can be a phantom response. For more on the nerves in your skin - _URL_0_

Question: Why does the connection strength between a phone and a wifi router fluxuate, even when neither are being touched?
Answer: Your connection strength isn't just determined by the strength of the signal between you and your phone, it is also impacted by the noise in the environment

While the signal strength may remain constant, if the noise increases because of a leaky microwave or increased WiFi traffic from your neighbor's router then the signal to noise ratio drops and you router may need to send messages slower to ensure that they get through to your phone

Question: Why do British judges wear big, curly, white wigs?
Answer: Short answer:  Tradition.

Longer answer:  because the look established a standard appearance for the various types of official (barristers have one particular wig/robe set, different levels of courts have different appearances, and up until relatively recently judges had in some cases 5 sets of robes/wigs for different events).  This has a lot of benefits, not the least of which arises when judges generally didn't bathe regularly.  Even without that, it makes clear at a distance who is important, but at the same time grants them a degree of anonymity outside the court room.  It also reduces bias in trial induced by the appearance of one barrister or another.  That's essentially the main argument for maintaining them.

But the longer term history is simply because something similar was fashionable in the 17th and 18th centuries (and earlier, though multicoloured before the death of Charles II), so it's what everyone at the time wore.  When it started to become unfashionable (into the 18th century) it became a rule, presumably because older lawyers and judges didn't want to give up the practice.  Even today it's still a rule, and even today lots of people in commonwealth systems don't want to give up the practice or don't want to give it up everywhere.  

Courts in the US until the 1840's or 50's basically had the same style of dress, but then Chief Justice Marshall got rid of the idea.  Even to present day states have various formal dress codes, not necessarily with the horse hair wig, but robes/sashes/etc. that are all legacies of some past court dress.  

I suppose the closest to correct but less useful answer is that it clings to life because unlike the US there's no single person in the Commonwealth who can say 'we're not doing it anymore', because one of them would have done so in the last 150 years or so, and once it's gone no one is likely to bring it back.  The UK has a professional body that decides this, and the various countries and sub national entities (provinces/states/territories) that all adopted the same style only bother to change when someone really kicks up a fuss over it.  The US though, the chief justice of the United States pretty much sets the standard for US federal courts, and if s/he says it's gone, it's gone, and every lower tier that may not be directly set by the chief justice will follow along.

Question: What is "Right to Work" and why do so may people think it's a ripoff?
Answer: It's the label that anti-union forces have placed on legislation which prohibits workers from being forced to join a union at a business where a union exists.

The argument for "right to work" is that people should be able to decide whether to join the union, and their employment shouldn't be contingent on a worker being "forced" to pay a percentage of his paycheck to the union.

The other side, though, is that unions only are effective when they have sufficient bargaining power with the employer.  If the workers won't follow union instructions regarding strikes and the like, the company has little incentive to capitulate to union demands for pay increases, better benefits, etc.  Additionally, there's the freerider problem.  In most union shops, the union negotiates for all workers, and the results of the union's negotiation (regarding conditions of work, benefits, etc.) are enjoyed by all.  But if that's the case, there's no incentive to pay to be in the union-- they get the benefits without the costs.  Union membership dwindles, and the union runs out of funds to complete its mission-- it withers on the vine.

So even though "right to work" is posed as some sort of employee benefit or freedom, its goal is to suffocate the strength of unions.  You can decide whether that's a good or bad thing.

Question: Whats the difference between 4G and 3G? And is there a 2G or just a G?
Answer: The different "G"'s are just different 'generations' of the wireless data technology used by cell phone network operators. They set certain standards that must be used by phone manufacturers, specify assumptions that manufacturers can make, etc. Telecomm companies build their networks to support a certain generation, which provides phones with access to transmit data at the rates specified by that standard. For example, all the major telecom companies have 3G networks, so phones that support 3G can transmit/receive data at 3G speeds. Some telecom's are starting to implement 4G, which is one of the newest standards, which is actually called 4G LTE. To keep it simple, none of the US companies have actually implemented completely true-to-form 4G LTE networks, although Verizon's is closest. T-Mobile markets 4G, but it's really just a souped up version of 3G which is faster. 

The LATEST network standard is 4G LTE+, which has very fast theoretical speeds, but the sheer cost of upgrading the infrastructure to the telecom's means it will be awhile before we see those speeds in our day-to-day.

Also, there is 2G. It's what you see a lot of phones using as a 'fall back' if they have no 3G/4G coverage, since 2G coverage is pretty widespread. It's an old network type and is pretty slow. There was a 'G' network before that, but it's called something else, which I forget. Wikipedia would have more info if you're curious.

Question: What harm does having a large debt do?
Answer: We have to pay interest on our debt. So having a huge debt means we have to pay a lot of interest, which means we either have less money to spend on things we want/need or have to borrow even more money.

Question: Why do we have to buy domain names from companies instead of just claiming it ourselves for free?
Answer: Back in the day, before everyone and his uncle wanted a domain name, before the world wide web, before google, you *could* just ask for a domain name and get it for free. Who did you ask? The National Science Foundation, of all things.  
When domains started getting more popular, the National Science Foundation got tired of doing it, and farmed the process out to anyone who wanted to be a "domain registrar."  
Turns out it's quite a bit of work.

Question: What is the Standard Model? Why does it matter?
Answer: The Standard Model is our current best theory of particle physics. It contains all the particles and all the forces necessary to explain everyday life.

There are six quarks and six leptons that make up pretty much everything we usually refer to as "matter." Then there are the four fundamental forces that govern every single interaction in the entire universe (that we know of so far), and the gauge bosons (or force carriers) for each of those forces.

It matters because it pretty much explains all of physics. There are a few exceptions. For example, the Standard Model doesn't really say much about gravity. There exists a theorized gauge boson for gravity, called the graviton, in the Standard Model, but it's never been seen experimentally.

Question: Why is rainwater not salty?
Answer: As you almost said in your question, the act of evaporation involves the water molecules getting enough energy so that the water can take its gasous form. 

The key part here is "water molecules". When water evaporates, nothing else gets "picked up" with it. Each molecule is always by definition pure H2O.

Once up in the atmosphere this water vapour condenses again and forms clouds. Now that it has a tangible form (i.e. it's become liquid again), other things that are in the atmosphere can dissolve in it once more. This will usually be other gases such as carbon dioxide.

Finally, when the condensed water vapour joins into drops large enough to fall due to gravity, we get rain. As the rain descends it might pass through dust and other solid pollutants, some of which will also dissolve into the rain. So by the time a raindrop lands back on earth it's unlikely to be pure H2O, even though that's how it started out when it first evaporated.

You'll notice that salt is not mentioned in this description. Salt molecules remain most definitely solid at the sort of temperatures you encounter at the surface of the earth (common salt, NaCl melts at 800°C/1500°F) and therefore when the water evaporates they get left behind.

Incidentally this fact is one of the primary means by which salt is "harvested" -- seawater is poured into large containers and the water allowed to evaporate. The compounds left behind consist of various salts but primarily NaCl.

Question: What is the difference between investors and shareholders?
Answer: In a publicly traded company, anyone can buy shares.  They are thus investing in the company.  Their say in how the company is actually run is limited.  Usually virtually the only say they have is in the election of the Board of Directors.  
    
Investors in a privately held company sometimes invest in return for shares, but that isn't the only possible model.  They may simply own a percentage of the company.  In rare cases, they don't own any part of the company, but invest in return for something else, such as a fixed return on their investment or rights to use some asset of the company.   
   
Private investors, if they are large investors, often have a substantial say in the running of the company.  They can demand a seat on the Board (and often do).

Question: How much progression do we have into time travel possibilities?
Answer: All the advancements in modern physics have progressed us away from the possibility of time travel.

Since Einstein's work on relativity, we've found more and more evidence indicating that nothing can go faster than the speed of light, and this severely limits theoretical avenues for the discovery of time travel. 

Of course we might have it all wrong (we've been wrong before) but we'd need an epic revolution in physics to get the possibility of time travel back on the table, and that's not the sort of thing you can count on.

Question: Everyone says that if Pakistan and India go to war, there will be global consequences. What are they?
Answer: Both have nuclear weapons and would probably use them if faced with an existential  threat such as actually losing a conventional war to their deadly enemy.

The rest of the world has an interest in avoiding a nuclear war, wouldn't you say?

Question: How come I can get really tired reading a book or watching tv, but when I try to go to sleep immediately after I toss and turn for hours before finally falling asleep?
Answer: If you're like me, it's because your mind races. Reading or watching TV means something is effectively doing a lot of the "thinking" for you. You can start to doze and still have the thoughts be fed to you. When thinking in bed, some thoughts lead to more and it just spirals out of control. 

Funny thing is, when you're in bed and can't sleep and your mom texts you to take out the trash. Sleeping is almost instantaneous.

Question: Why is saffron so expensive?
Answer: Saffron comes from the stigmas of a flower called the purple crocus. There's only a few stigmas in each flower. So it takes a lot of flowers and a lot of hard labor to harvest and prepare even a small amount of saffron. I think it's cheaper if you buy saffron threads instead of in ground powder form, though.

Question: Why is it that we sometimes remember seemingly insignificant things we don't try to remember. ex: when I was 6 I specifically remember tying my shoe on my birthday, but I don't remember anything else. What's the trigger?
Answer: They're called flash memories, it's when something significant happened to you ( or at least you perceived it as important ). It's the same as "that one time I accidentally shit myself before school in sixth grade and had to wipe it off and wear that same pair of underwear at school that day". The memory may not even be significant, it may have just triggered enhanced brain activity causing the brain to believe that this event is important.

Question: when skydiving, is the gravity of the earth's core pulling me down or the air molecules I am in contact with?
Answer: Everything attracts everything. However, the heavier the object, the more force it will exert on you. Imagine all the weight of the air above you when jumping (pulling you up); that weight is negligible compared to the weight of the earth + the air beneath you (pulling you down).

Side note: the distance is also very important. If you double the distance, the force is divided by 4. This is why you wouldn't fall off the moon if you stood on it and the earth passed by overhead. But this isn't important while you are still in the atmosphere.

Question: What is Net Neutrality? Why does it matter? Or why should i care?
Answer: Net neutrality is the philosophy that all content on a network should be treated equally.  That is, an Internet service provider shouldn't prioritize network traffic based on where it's coming from, where it's going, what kind of content (video, music, etc) it is, and other things in that vein.

Net neutrality is important because, years ago, an ISP decided to restrict the traffic from torrents on their line.  If it's legal to do this, then service providers could arbitrarily slow your access to certain sites for pretty much any reason.  For example, imagine if Reddit erupted in hostility against Verizon Wireless, and VZW responded by making all Reddit traffic on their network move at a snail pace.

There are other implications of net neutrality involving the way Internet access is priced.  At any rate, it's important if you believe that the Internet functions best as a group of people who are able to share information without fear of having their connections restricted.  You can relate it to free speech in that, if you pay for an Internet connection, you should be able to do whatever you want with it as long as you're not breaking the law or infringing on the rights of others.

Question: How do internet companies that offer large amounts of data storage turn a profit?
Answer: Ever since GMail, companies have found that this model can work. The thing is that huge capacities are a powerful selling point (it instantly made GMail the top free mail brand in what was a crowded market) but most people don't use much of that capacity. I have had my gmail account since 2006, sending and getting mail actively all that time, and use 370 MB (2%) now. 

Note that these services usually go aggressively after misusers of their service. Anyone who has tried to run some sort of a remote storage system over GMail has found themselves banned in a hurry. So as long as you keep out those users who will use up 100% of their storage, you're left with legitimate users who use 2-5% or so, not that expensive to provide for, and since they're legitimately using the service, potentially a good source of profit (ads usually).

Question: How does the screen of your car know the name of the current playing song when you are just listening to the radio?
Answer: It's called RBDS.  They just send the data along with the regular signal.  Your radio gets the extra info and it tells you what song is playing.


Edit: a word

Question: Why I feel a "difference" between shows like The Wire, Game of Thrones and Breaking Bad VS shows like Leverage, Babylon 5 and Burn Notice.
Answer: Others have mentioned elements but there's another that started, largely, with the Sopranos and was perfected by The Wire.

American television in the past has always been about the advertising. Content was dictated by who was choosing to advertise during that timeslot, censored because an advertiser complained, the story adapted to have mini-cliffhangers built around the commercial breaks, and everything self-contained within the single episode of the show with it all returning to the status quo by the end. The last part, specifically, is because they want anyone to be able to tune into an episode of a show and begin watching. It doesn't matter if it's the seventh episode of season six, you can still watch, because more watching means more money.

What began largely with HBO and the Sopranos was a huge shift away from all of these elements. The writers became free to make TV that wasn't constrained by what their advertisers might find "puts off viewers." They were able to make a show where cliffhangers were a natural part of the story being told, not just a 3-minute piece of tension crowbarred in to stop someone changing channels during the break. They also completely divorced themselves from the status quo ideal. Any episode could see a major character die. Long and complex plotlines could take multiple episodes, even seasons to resolve. Especially with the Wire, this thick continuity allowed for such huge payoffs for the dedicated viewer, whilst alienating someone who missed even a single episode, but with the rise of the internet and the ability to view any episode at any time you want (Netflix, piracy etc), that's stopped being an issue.

Group A shows have taken this and run with it. You tune in to a late episode of Game of Thrones without seeing an episode before, you're not going to have a single *fucking clue* what is going on. Fifteen years ago that wouldn't have been imaginable. On many stations where advertising is still the ruler, that's still unacceptable, often stations with demographics that aren't so likely to be using online streaming to catch up. Things have to be approachable for everyone, the storyline must be kept manageable in bite-size chunks for new viewers. Group B ensues.

Thankfully there are channels that have advertisers but have realised what's happening and are competing by putting advertiser needs, the status quo, and "mandatory cliffhangers" far behind the needs of the story being told.

To have it put far more eloquently, David Simon (yes, writer of the Wire) did an introduction to the book The Wire: Truth Be Told where he touches on this exact topic, and I know he did an online reading of it for some website, but due to my workplace's firewall I can't find it right now. I'll see if I can dig it up when I get home.

Question: The Planned Parenthood Fetal Organ Donation Program
Answer: Yes, the fetal tissue is harvested after abortion only with the mother's consent. If the mother does not consent, the tissue is destroyed in the same way all medical waste is destroyed. The tissue can come from any sort of abortion, whether that is a fetus that is not viable, one that threatens the life of the mother or simply a child that the mother does not want. I do believe it needs to be a surgical abortion and the mother needs to be along a certain amount of weeks, but please don't quote me on that. I've tried to find a source for that, but it is sadly very hard to find anything in terms of sensible information out there right now with all the conservative lying and fear mongering. 

As long as the tissue is well enough intact, it can be donated to companies that do medical research. PP is not allowed to sell fetal tissue, however the companies that receive said tissues can make donations to PP. Usually there is an agreement to donate enough to cover the cost of handling and transportation.

Question: Why so many Native American tribes seem to own casinos
Answer: Gambling is illegal in a lot of the United States, but on Native American Reservations, they don't have to follow those rules as much. So casinos get built because they don't have many laws to say no casinos

Question: Why are there 'LATEST Snowden leaks'?
Answer: From the sources I've seen it's being released in chunks to keep it on people's minds and in the media longer.

Question: Buckingham's pi theorem
Answer: The Buckingham Pi Theorem is important in dimensional analysis, which is the key to understanding fluid and heat dynamics.  Using the theorem gives us *dimensionless groups* - variables that have no units associated with them. You are already familiar with these through the concept of percentages.

This is important because it allows us to account for many variables at the same time, which makes the concepts easier to understand and write.  It also allows us to *scale our experiments*, i.e., we can change several variables at once and leave the physics unchanged.

For example, the first Buckingham Pi group you're going to talk about is called the *Reynolds number*, which appears in anything having to do with fluid flow.  This quantity is:

    Re = rho * v * D / eta

where rho = fluid density ( kg/m^3 ), v = stream velocity ( m/s ), D = characteristic length ( m ), and eta = viscosity (kg/m*s).  Notice that all the units cancel out.

Using the Reynold's number makes finding equations and correlations much easier.  Instead of a whole mess of letters and superscripts, we can just say, "skin friction is proportional to the Reynold's number".  If I want to study the flow of air over an airplane wing, say, I can also use the scalability of Buckingham Pi groups to design a valid experiment - for example, testing a small model of the wing in an air tunnel.  So long as I choose an air velocity such that the Reynold's number is the same, my experiment can use the same equations as the real thing.

If you're asked to construct Buckingham Pi groups from a group of variables, you just have to use logic and arrange them such that the units cancel out.  It's easiest to just use generic terms mass, length, time, and temperature: velocity = L * T^-1 , density = M * L^-3, energy = M * L^2 * T^-2 , etc.  If a configuration isn't immediately apparent, set up a system of equations and solve so that M = L = T = 0.

You didn't ask about it, but I think it helps to remember all the different dimensionless numbers as ratios of two quantities.  For instance, the Reynold's number is the ratio of "momentum forces" (rho * v * D) to "viscous forces" (eta).  In other words, it's the ratio of how much the fluid particles want to "tumble along" versus how much they want to stick together.

Question: If you have a pile of mulch/woodchips/etc and leave it long enough it can start to smoke. How?
Answer: A large enough pile will be generating heat all through it, and the stuff in the middle has nowhere for the heat to go, so it builds up. Eventually, you'll hit the smoke point for something in the pile (the wood, the resins in the sap, small children, you know) and voila! Smoke!

Question: How scientists determine the composition of each planet/ Star?
Answer: Different elements have different light emissions, so by analyzing the light coming from a star or reflecting off a planet, you can tell what it is mostly composed of.

Edit: the light spectrum analysis looks like this: _URL_0_

Question: What's going on in Scotland and the U.K. with regards to potential Scottish Independence?
Answer: On the 18th of September 2014, people living in Scotland, and who are registered to vote, will be given the opportunity to answer a very simple question: "Should Scotland be an independent country?"

50% +1 of those who have voted must have voted Yes for it to pass. On September 19th, the result will be announced.

If it is a Yes campaign win:

- Alex Salmond, First Minister of Scotland, will then have the democratic mandate to compose a team of negotiators, and enter into formal negotiations with the rest of the UK. This will be cross party, and include prominent politicians from all areas of the political spectrum.
- The SNP White Paper hopes that discussions will reach a point that independence is possible by 24th March 2016.
- Discussions with both the UK government and the European Union would continue beyond the date of Scottish Independence, as many, many issues will require attention, not least EU membership, NATO membership, treaties etc.

If it is a Better Together campaign win:

- The UK government's three main parties have agreed, in principle, that the Scottish Parliament should receive further devolution of powers, including tax raising powers.
- Which specific powers are devolved to the Scottish Parliament by the UK government is largely dependent on what UK party wins the 2015 General Election.
- The timeline of further devolution is unclear, as Better Together's three central parties disagree as to the best course to implement these further powers.

Hopefully this is a fairly non-biased summary, I am a Yes voter after all ;)

Question: Why haven't foreign Armies gone to stop the ISIS?
Answer: I can't answer for either different countries or the United States government, since I'm not apart of either; but from the American people there is a huge sense of "war-weariness". The people are tired of fighting long, bloody, expensive, and often unnecessary wars on the other side of the globe. There is already a huge resentment of the Bush administration for lying to goad the United States into war; and a sense of disillusionment as Obama continues the war in Afghanistan (along with a large scale campaign of drone strikes across the Middle East). 

We know what is happening is awful, but honestly, would another 7,000 American dead be worth fighting another "War on Terror"; which would just bring more bloodshed to the region after we left?

Question: How can wood be "Fire-Hardened" without burning to ash?
Answer: Fire-hardening involves removing moisture from the wood, then burning off an outer layer. The fibers are burned away from this section but much of the lignin, which is a complex repeating molecule (or polymer) is left behind.  These tightly interlock to form a smooth, waterproof surface that can be deep enough to protect the wood even when scratched.

This was used in early weapon production, and a method of Japanese wood preservation known as Shou Sugi Ban. Often other plant oils are added before or after burning to enhance the effect of the coating.

Question: How do colors work in space? Are the photos we see the true colors of planets, nebulae, etc. or is everything actually gray scale to the human eye?
Answer: A little of both.

Things in space really do have colors - Mars is red, Saturn is yellow-y, etc. Mostly depending on their dominant chemical makeup. (Mars, for example, is literally rusted, thus the red color.)

However, many images from space telescopes and such are... well, not fake, but deliberately colored towards some effect. This can range from something relatively minor, like exaggerating the saturation so that finer details are easier to see, to something pretty major, like assigning visible colors to different non-visible exposures (radio, x-ray, infrared, ultraviolet). In all those cases, the caption usually explains how the image was processed, and the processing is done to aid scientific study of the image. But it still means, it wouldn't quite look that way "in person".

Question: How does the Wayback Machine work? Do deactivated accounts and deleted posts still get stored even if you don't archive them in the _URL_0_ website?
Answer: They have maaaaaaassive servers in the petabyte range. (It's a major source of funding stress for them I think – getting more and more storage) edit: [9 PB + 20 TB/mo](_URL_0_) i was wrong

They regularly crawl through the web (so your personal webserver won't be accessed unless you host a semi-popular forum or something) and store each of the results given. Given most pages are less than 1 MB and most are less than 300-500 kB, they can store many snapshots of a lot of pages almost indefinitely. They rarely delete anything i think, at least very rarely.

They only take the snapshots of un-logged websites (ie if they took a snapshot of reddit, they would only take a snapshot of what everyone sees before logging in) so any personal information stored is kind of your problem.

Question: How do builders/electricians lay overhead wires from distant buildings.
Answer: They don't. 500m is rather long to not use a pole.

They don't use common wire either, they use wire rated for aerial exposure, plus contains a steel wire to take the weight of the cable without having to stress the conductors.

Now, with that, they install an insulator to the structure, so as tension of the wire does not pull out. That steel wire is attached through the insulator and around itself, or a tension adapter is used to grip the wire and loop through the insulator. The non steel part of the cable is ran where it needs to be, to connect to the building services it is for.

It is just ran on the ground, and pulled up by rope usually.

Question: Why is battery still required for the car's engine to keep running?
Answer: During the operation, the battery just serves as energy storage in case electrical demands exceed the output of the alternator at any given time, which is rare.    

But in most cars, the alternator (which converts mechanical energy to electrical energy) is connected to the belt.  If the belt snaps, no electricity is being generated, and all electrical demands will be sourced from the battery.

But in most situations, if the belt snaps, you have worse things to worry about depending on what else is connected to the belt.

Question: If Spider-Man is a mutant, why isn't he considered part of the X-Men? Does Magneto consider him on the mutant side?
Answer: Spider-Man is not a mutant. He falls into the "Altered Human" category of Marvel Supers, along with other characters of similar age, like the Hulk, the members of the Fantastic Four,  and the Silver Surfer.

Question: How knowing mathematics is important for learning how to code a computer
Answer: As a web developer, I wouldn't say I use much mathematics, what I do use is logic. Maybe math is heavily suggested because it forces you to think logically?

On a side note, I know certain programming like motion (for games) and such does deal with math.

Question: If the average human body temperature is 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit, why does 98 degree weather feel so hot  &  have the potential to cause a heat stroke?
Answer: because our bodies generate heat and need cooling.  at 98 degrees it wouldn't be able to cool very well.

Question: Why is burnt food a carcinogen?
Answer: First, you have to understand what cancer is. Cancer is when some of the cells (tiny pieces) in your body start growing and making new cells much faster than they're supposed to. The part of the cell that tells it how to grow is called the DNA, and it looks like a long, curled up chain. The shape of the chain is like writing that tells the cell how to grow.

Burning food and digesting burnt food creates a bunch of different chemicals. Some of the chemicals are called epoxides. These chemicals stick to DNA and change its shape. Most of the time that just makes the cell die (which isn't a problem because we have a lot of cells). But if they change the shape in the right (wrong!) place, it could mess up the way the cell grows and cause cancer.

Question: Why does my cat want to cuddle then suddenly attack me viciously?
Answer: He doesn't want to cuddle, he wants warmth, just let him do his thing, then, pat his head, don't over stimulate him. 

You'll want to know your cat well, after the Facebook thing...

Question: Explain like I am five the real life historical undertones of LOTR. Please.
Answer: Tolkein himself was adamant that his work was about individual people standing up for what is right, not a veiled reference to any particular war.  The most important chapter, according to the author and many readers, is the next to last- "The Scouring of the Shire", which was left out of the movie.

As to Potter, he's just an entitled twat, born with abilities instead of having to work for them.  The whole story is a fantasy about how his family didn't realize how special he was, but then some super special people found him and eventually recognized him as the most super duper special of them all.

Question: how does bone marrow actually manufacture blood?
Answer: Pharmacist -

Bone marrow contain a special type of stem cell.  These divide and multiply.  Under the influence of various hormones, some of them mature into the various cellular components of blood.  While there are many types of such cells they are generally referred to as white or red blood cells.

One of the treatments they use for kidney dialysis patients is the hormone that tells the body to make "red blood cells".  One of the treatments they use for chemotherapy patients it the hormone that says make "white blood cells"

Other parts of the blood are made and regulated elsewhere.  Your digestive and kidney systems handle the salt and water balance.  Your Liver makes all the proteins you need to make blood clot and keep the water from leaking out of your veins.

Question: How did English surpass French as the "lingua franca" of the world?
Answer: The UK's international influence from trade and colonization had eclipsed that of France by the mid 19th Century.  At about the same time, US influence was on the rise, especially in the New World and the Asian Pacific.

Then in the early 20th Century, multimedia took off with the US in the center of it.  Music and movies, and eventually radio and television started to export American English speaking culture throughout the world in an era where France has been devastated by two world wars.

Question: how the Hawking Radiation was proved to be true and why it is so widely accepted, and how it actually works.
Answer: If something is inside the event horizon of a black hole then it can never escape.

If something is just outside the event horizon then it can either move towards the blackhole and cross the event horizon,   or it can be moving fast enough and escape.

Quantum mechanics allows for the spontaneous creation of pairs of particles  (a particle and its anti-particle).

Normally this pair of particles soon interacts with the universe - the antiparticle annihilates a particle - and balance is restored.

If the pair is produced near a blackhole and they are moving in directions such that the particle is moving away from the blackhole and the antiparticle is moving towards the blackhole,  then the anti-particle can cross the event horizon and annihilate a particle inside blackhole.

In this way the blackhole gets fractionally smaller and there is a new particle in the universe - the net effect is that the blackhole emitted a particle.

The effect is too small to have been observed.

Question: In America, how do multimillionaires and billionaires store their money if they are only insured up to $250,000 according to the FDIC?
Answer: Investments. And their cash assets are just spread over several banks...or just over the insured limit.

Most people with net worth over $5 million have most of their wealth in growth or income-generating investments like stocks, companies or real estate.

Question: How do passports work?
Answer: There is a big database.  Most countries share information about their citizens who hold passports with each other via that database, and some countries enhance the database for their border control agents with additional information.  For example when you are entering the United States, your passport is verified with your home country, checked against various international criminal databases, and checked against various internal databases maintained by the US government (which may not be shared with other countries, or may only be shared in part).

This database thing is relatively new.  Today virtually every nation has signed up to a set of standards for passports that enable this database to be nearly universal, and many countries won't accept a non-conforming passport so the nations that are hold outs are under a lot of pressure to conform to the international norm.

Passports as a system have a very long lineage.  Over time the passport system has become more relaxed and easy for common people to use but it began as a tool for high level diplomats or merchants with specific needs to engage in international travel.

In the past, getting a passport was not trivial.  You had to request one from your government and provide a reason that you needed it, where you intended to go, how long you would be gone, etc.  The issuance of a passport represented your government's agreement that your travel plans were acceptable (to your government).  Not all requests for a passport were accommodated - you might have to bribe or play politics to get one.

Countries by treaty would honor passports with or without additional endorsements and visas.  For a very long time, in order to enter a country not your own you had to arrange in advance for a visa to be issued, which usually required you to submit your passport to the embassy of the country you wished to visit, who would keep it until your visa was either issued or denied.  This could take some time because the embassy staff might transmit your application back to the home country for review and approval, and before the age of telegraphy, that meant waiting for the physical mail to make the trip there and back again.  Of course some nations still require such visas today - if the country that issues your passport doesn't have a treaty in place with the nation you want to visit that waives the requirement, you'll need to get a visa in advance.

When you entered a foreign country you presented your passport.  The border control would verify that the passport appeared valid, and had the necessary stamps, endorsements and visas attached to permit entry.  Your name might be checked against lists maintained at the border to block unwanted individuals from entry.

By treaty nations within the passport system extended certain courtesies to valid passport holders.  If such people were detained by the police their embassies should be notified.  If hostilities commenced between the countries, they would be permitted to evacuate unless their detention was a military necessary.

Like much of international law these systems gained value over time as more and more states agreed to participate in the system.  A nation didn't have to honor other passports or issue its own passports, but doing so made it easier for its citizens to travel to other countries, and for foreigners to visit its territory.

The use of a forged passport was a significant crime.  Forging a passport was a little bit like forging currency - you were "stealing" the power of the state, and states don't like that.  Likewise getting multiple passports was also problematic since it broke the connection that one person == one state and therefore problems would be more easily resolved.  If one person == multiple states, adjudicating problems could become vastly more complex.

Question: how do shopping cart anti-theft wheel locks work?
Answer: There is a braking device inside the wheels which contains a radio receiver.  Around the boundary of the store grounds is a transmitter loop, much like an invisible dog fence, putting out a signal.

When the cart crosses the invisible fence, it receives the signal from the transmitter and triggers the brakes inside the wheel, locking it up.

Question: How do doctors, nurses, etc. tend to sick people constantly without getting sick all the time themselves?
Answer: Hello!  This is a great question, and something healthcare staff should always keep in mind when working around patients. Depending on what the patient's diagnosis is, different precautions are taken.  Staff wear disposable **personal protective equipment (PPE)** based on protocol.

 & nbsp;
  
A **standard or universal precaution** is applied to every patient, even if they do not have an infectious diagnosis.  This involves basics like hand washing/sanitizing before and after contact, as well as gloves.  You never know what someone has, so it is best to play it safe when coming in contact with potential disease vectors like blood and vomit.
    
Patients with a **contact**-spread disease, e.g. norovirus, are designated as such and given adequate isolation to prevent transmitting the disease to another patient.  This can be a private room or sharing a room with a patient diagnosed with the same infection.  Staff wear disposable gowns as well as the aforementioned gloves.  All equipment brought into the room is cleaned, or the room will preferably have its own set of equipment.
  
Diseases spread through droplets up to 3 feet, whether by coughing or sneezing, such as influenza, require **droplet precautions**.  A surgical mask prevents inhalation of these droplets, and often staff will also wear contact PPE if getting close to the patient
  
Varicella (chicken pox) and measles, etc. are spread similarly, but form small particles that can travel further and penetrate surgical masks.  In preparation for **airborne precautions**, staff are fit-tested with N95 respirators early on.

Sometimes, things go wrong, even with the most skilled professionals.  Hospitals have policies and procedures to dictate how to handle things like accidental needle-sticks to prevent transmission of disease.

 & nbsp;

I hope this helps!

Question: Why would anyone willingly take Fentanyl if it’s going to kill them outright, and why would a drug pusher would willingly kill his clients with it?
Answer: The first reason is that people often think "It will never happen to me."  They take hard drugs believing they will be immune to the negative effects.  They think they are stronger, smarter, less susceptible, whatever.  Consider [the redditor who tried heroin](_URL_0_) "just to see what it's like" and ended up ODing so badly it temporarily stopped their heart.  He didn't think "heroin will kill **me**", he thought "heroin kills *other people* but I'll be fine."  So some people think they can get away with dangerous drugs because they think it won't hurt them.  Maybe they've been doing MDMA recreationally and it never got them hooked or hurt them, so they think "MDMA was fun, I've heard fentanyl is way stronger, I'm sure it'll be fun [and I'll be fine]."

The alternative is people who are so hooked they just don't care anymore.  They've been doing heroin or morphine for years and have become used to it, it doesn't give them the high they crave so they turn to something like fentanyl.  They *know* it will kill them, but it doesn't matter.  They need the fix.  You could pull a gun on them and say "I will literally shoot you if you touch that heroin needle" and they'll still reach for it and hope that they can at least die in the euphoria of the high.  At that point, your rational thinking is completely subservient to the need for the drug.  You're chemically dependent on it, you're psychologically dependent on it, and when you hear about the promise of a drug that's way better, the possibility of dying is there, but it's shoved into the back because the alternative (not getting high) is no longer acceptable.

Question: why doesn't rain always have the rain smell
Answer: You're smelling chemicals and oils produced in dry soils being released into the air.  These chemicals and oils are produced by certain bacteria and plants.  So if you don't have dry soil or those certain plants/bacteria in abundance, you won't get the smell or it might not be strong enough to notice.

Question: What are the results of the Indian Elections, and what does it mean?
Answer: The Bharitya Janta Party (BJP; rough meaning Indian People's Party) recorded a solid landslide, gaining a clear majority in their own right in the Lok Sabha (People's house, analogous to the House of Reps), and with their coalition partners control a solid majority of the 543 member lower house. The Congress party that previously held government has been reduced to a fairly tiny 50 or so seats, and their leadership is in somewhat disarray. Most of the remaining seats are taken up by minor regional and small issue parties.

The BJP is the conservative party, right of Congress. In American terms, it is a thumping win for Republicans. Note however the Indian political realities puts the BJP somewhere around the Democrats, while the previous government could have been described as borderline socialist.

India hasn't seen a party with a clear majority for 30 years, so while the BJP are so far indicating they'll retain their coalition partners (mainly because they'll need them in the upper house, which isn't yet clear), they could push through their agenda without the compromises and delays that have dragged down politics in recent history.

PM designate Modi specifically: as a former chief minister (governor) for Gujarat state, Modi achieved significant economic growth, attracting business from overseas and other parts of the country to an area that hadn't had such development for years. As a result, he has been seen to bring a pragmatic and business focused reform agenda. India's middle class has been complaining of rising inflation with (relatively) low growth, so the hope is that he'll control the former while encouraging the latter. Modi is the _first_ prime minister of India born after Independence, though at 63 he is no spring chicken.

Modi has his critics. He is seen as being passive in the face of sectarian violence against Muslims in his state 12 years ago, and he hasn't quite shaken it. The BJP's association with the religious movements (like any Conservative party) is troubling to minorities, particularly Muslims, but with 150 million Muslims in India and two neighbouring Muslim countries in Pakistan and Bangladesh, the BJP would be suicidal to actually do anything that would be anti-Muslim. Other minorities are considered small enough or inconsequential enough as to not be worth ruffling (no perceived threat from Sikhs, Jains or Buddhists.)

Any more and you really start delving into history.

Question: Why are so many people on /r/politics and /r/worldnews rooting for Chris Dorner?
Answer: Because Reddit generally hates cops and the united states. It is the cool thing to do.

Question: What exactly is meant when a company posts a quarterly loss or gain?
Answer: It means that Amazon actually did not make a profit this quarter. To ELI5, publicly-traded companies add up their income and expenses, and the bottom line is a profit or loss statement for the month, quarter, or year.

Question: What is the difference between a "good" quality watch and a "poor" quality watch?
Answer: It's all style.  High-end watches are [Veblen goods](_URL_0_):  They're in demand *because* they're so expensive.

A fancy mechanical Rolex will keep much less accurate time than any $10 Timex with a quartz crystal.

Question: What's the logic behind the majority of dishes being round?
Answer: This is likely due to durability and history of being made on a potters wheel.

To the first point, corners and points are the easiest pieces of a piece to snap off. Being round eleminates corners and makes all edges equally strong.

To the second point, a very common method of production of ceramic dishes is on a potters wheel. As it spins uniform pressure is applied to create a shape. This would most easily form uniform round shapes.

Question: What can one do to help the environment?
Answer: Don't have children.  Reducing the number of humans is a sure fire way to reduce humans impact on the planet.

Question: What molecular attribute governs bouncy-ness
Answer: Elasticity and electromagnetism. Basically, when the ball hits the floor, it deforms elastically. Atoms and molecules are pushed together, against their own repulsive forces. This stores energy. Once there is no more energy to store (the ball has stopped), the molecules use that stored energy to return the ball to its original form, which pushes it up.

Question: United States "territories and possessions"
Answer: A territory is a part of the United States that is not a state or the District of Columbia.  People living there are US citizens, but typically do not have all the rights of people living in states, nor do they have all the obligations.  Basically, they can't vote for president, they can't elect representatives, and they don't have to pay many federal taxes.

The remaining US territories are islands in the Carribean and Pacific.  Most are too small to have state level governments...some are completely uninhabited.  Puetro Rico is the only territory large enough to consider statehood, but its citizens have decided against it in multiple referenda.

There are a lot of ways these islands became territories.  Puerto Rico and Guam were ceded by the Spanish after the Spanish-American War.  The US Virgin Islands were purchased from Denmark.  The North Marianas Islands asked to be a territory rather than seeking independence.

Question: Why does 60° water feel way colder than 60° air?
Answer: So you're standing in your birthday suit in a 60 degree room. You're a little chilly, but there's a tiny pocket of air immediately around you that has been warmed up by your body, so you're comfortable. Unless a fan is turned on, which disturbs your warm air pocket.

That pocket is gone when you're in 60 degree water, and it's harder for your body to create a warm pocket.

Question: How did Michael Jackson change skin color?
Answer: He had vitiligo, as confirmed from his autopsy, dozens of sources, pictures of his hands and legs, and by himself. He used make-up to even it out and some people claim he bleached his skin to speed up the process. In the end, his skin looked very pale and was very sensitive to the sun, that's why he wore clothes that covered most of his body and held an umbrella in the summer.

Question: Why not construct concrete homes in the tornado alley instead of rebuilding every time?
Answer: Cost, odds, and aesthetics. The odds of being hit by a tornado are very small - they aren't that wide and only touch down for a few miles, usually. So odds are a house isn't going to get a direct hit by a tornado. 

Then it is a question of cost and aesthetics. Since home builders and buyers know their house is very likely not going to be hit, they'll go with the house that is much cheaper - it means they can afford a bigger and nicer house (or just save on money). Also, while there are plenty of good looking, modern, high end concrete homes, if you don't have skilled concrete tradesmen, a concrete home can look ugly, or you'll just need more materials as a facade.

Question: What exactly is pain tolerance?
Answer: It's exactly as you explained it. You have nerve signals that tell your brain when something isn't right (something is really hot or cold, or you've just had a sharp piece of glass cut through your skin) and if they are constantly sending signals to your brain saying things are painful, your brain starts ignoring the signal so things that are equally as painful are felt as weaker by your body.

Question: In regards to alcohol, what does proof and percent by volume really mean? Is one more important than the other?
Answer: The term "Proof" is a holdover from less scientific days, where unscrupulous people might try to sell you watered down booze.  You'd mix a bit of the liquid with some gun powder and drop a match.  If it burned, that was "proof" that the beverage was not watered down. 

In modern times "proof" is quantified properly, and 2 "proof" points equals 1% ABV (so 100 proof whiskey would be 50% ABV).  So ultimately we're talking about 2 terms with slightly different scales measuring the exact same thing.

Question: the appeals process in the American court system.
Answer: There are a *ton* of court cases, and everyone has to wait their turn in line, this just takes up a lot of time waiting for a court to hear your case.  In addition, lawyers and prosecutors need time to build their cases, gather evidence and do a variety of administrative procedures to ensure everything is going right.

So add this all up, and well, its just really really time-consuming.  There are also a variety of tactics  for both sides based on extending the amount of time before trial, but these are quite complicated and more case-specific issues.

Question: why do airport security take sharp objects off you (safety razors, safety pins, nail scissors) and then allow you to buy them at the pharmacy in departures?
Answer: The TSA exists mostly as a show of force to dissuade people from trying things in airport security zones. If a clever person really wanted to get something nefarious in, they probably could, but most people simply aren't that dedicated. By making everyone subtly hate the TSA, the mythos that they are unbeatable permeates the society and fewer people try anything.

This isn't to say they are ineffective, of course, it's just that their effectiveness has little to do with their actual security precautions, and more to do with the sociological consequences of them.

Question: The difference between rar files and zip files
Answer: One reminds you every time you use it that it hasn't been purchased; the other doesn't.

Question: Why do we use the color red for stop, yellow for caution/slow, and green for go?
Answer: I know the answer to this, I just cant explain it that well because its been a while since I have heard the reason.

Basically the red light that travels from the light can travel the farthest due to its longer wavelength. This means it is easier to see from farther away, even if its shady/cloudy/foggy, etc. Green is the complimentary color to red so it makes the most sense. 

Also, another reason would be because red indicates danger, and demands attention, like blood. Where green is a cooler color. Both of these combined make lights what they are today

^^^Please ^^^don't ^^^hurt ^^^me ^^^this ^^^is ^^^my ^^^first ^^^ELI5 ^^^explanation

Question: How do you "count" cards and why is it considered bad by casinos?
Answer: As u/LordDivo said. 

It's best to work in a team so you can kind of see what tables have the best odds for the players. 

If you're going solo, the basic strategy is you sit down and start with 0 in your head. 

You then have to watch every card. Lower cards are +1 (2,3,4,5,6). Higher cards are -1 (A,K,Q,J,10). I believe the middle 3 cards (7,8,9) are 0.

The higher the score that you are counting, the better your odds are. This is when you place your larger bets. 


What makes this difficult isn't the math, as its just plus or minus 1, but counting every single card. Doing this while trying to not be obvious as it is against casino policy. 


Side note: you know those little charts that you can find online for blackjack? The ones that say when you should hit, fold, double down, etc... casinos generally don't care if you bring these to the table.

Question: Why do car batteries have a positive and negative side which need jumper cables to charge, rather than a simple plug system like most other batteries?
Answer: Batteries all have a positive and a negative side. I am not quite sure what plug you are talking about that most other batteries use. The terminals are often standard but the location of the terminals is determined by the layout of the battery and can not be standardized across different types of batteries. Military vehicles, buses and trucks often do have a standard plug for charging the battery and jump starting the vehicle. However this have not catched on with normal cars yet.

Question: What is gas lighting?
Answer: Maybe you're looking for a practical example? A good way to begin is by moving everyday objects into new places and pretending they have always been there. Move a lamp from one corner of a room to another. When they notice or comment say, "What? No, that lamp has always been there." Act casual.

Question: Does time pass at the same rate for 2 stationary objects 500 million light years apart?
Answer: It depends on where in the universe you are.  Time dilation occurs when spacetime is warped, and while relative motion is one way to cause this, perhaps the more common way is simply having mass.  Everything that has mass distorts spacetime and causes time dilation, and the more mass the larger the distortion.

Assuming you and the alien were at locations with exactly the same gravity wells, then yes, time would pass for both of you at the same rate.

Question: Why do militaries paint missiles? Aren't they just going to explode and get destroyed anyway?
Answer: Missiles spend most of their operational lifetime not exploding.

The paint is for those times.

Question: What is the case for keeping the electoral college versus just using the popular vote?
Answer: The Electoral College is a check on the electorate.  The people could vote for a charismatic populist despot (like Hitler) and the supposedly well-informed and impartial Electors could cast faithless votes to either elect someone else, or send the Presidential Election to Congress.

This reflects the fear of pure democracy that was common in the 18th and 19th centuries.  However today there is greater distrust in political elites and experts (who are subject to corruption) than in the electorate (who are fickle and generally poorly informed).

Regardless, the Electoral College is a constitutional institution.  The US Congress and 38 states must agree on a constitutional amendment to replace it OR states equaling 270 electoral votes must sign and approve the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact, effectively creating a popular vote regime that would dictate the votes of the Electoral College.  Currently states totaling 161 electoral votes have signed the Compact.

Question: If the FDA allows rounding in food labels, which allows food labels to say something has 0g of trans fat when it actually has  >  0g, why don't we measure trans fat in milligrams like with sodium?
Answer: Per a Prevention article from 3/NOV/2011, there isn't (wasn't) an ability to detect trans fast below 0.5g.  

Direct quote from the article:

"Barbara Schneeman, director of the Office of Nutritional Products, Labeling and Dietary Supplements for the FDA said the reason the FDA is allowing foods under 0.5 grams of trans fats to be rounded down to zero is that current detection methods for trans fats aren't very reliable below 0.5 grams."

_URL_0_ 

That said: I was just in Europe for the first time in 10 years and noticed something else interesting... I'm a diet soda drinker... and her Diet Coke and Coke Zero both say zero calories.  In Spain and Italy, I first noticed that "Diet Coke" (and Diet Pepsi) are "Coke Light" and "Pepsi Light"....  Secondly, Coke Zero has 0.3 kcal per 100ml (1 cal per US 12oz can), and Coke Light has 0.2 kcal per 100ml (0.67 cal per US 12oz can).  Another example of rounding that benefits the manufacturer's marketing needs (most likely also why Pepsi's response to Coke Zero was first call Pepsi One... an more accurate representation of the calorie content).

Question: Why is it when a body part falls asleep, we perceive it as a static-y feeling?
Answer: The very short version is that you've restrictied the blood flow to a particular extremity. 

Nerves being the nessicary sensitive bitches they are rely on lots of blood to function properly. If that's cut down, you get the "jerking off hand of death" for 5 - 20 minutes as the blood flow restores normal function. 

In the mean time, your nerves are sending a "I'M DYING!!1!" to your brain. 

I find this is a really good time to try "the stranger".

Question: How a Turing Machine works and how it is important to computers
Answer: A Turing machine is a very simple computer. It's just a long strip of "paper", combined with a machine that can write on the strip, read from the strip, and move the strip around.

It's important to computers because it's believed that Turing machines are *equivalent* to computers. So if you prove that something is impossible to do on a Turing machine, it's impossible to do on a computer. If you prove that something is impossible to do *quickly* on a Turing machine, it's impossible to do quickly on a computer. That's very helpful when you're trying to study the theory of computers, because as I said the Turing machine is a *lot* simpler than any real computer.

Question: What happened to Mongolia?
Answer: Genghis Khan's empire was huge but unstable. It broke apart almost immediately after his death. As time passed on the last remnants of the empire simply faded away. Most simply assimilated into local culture (like the mughals of India) and others were just conquered by more powerful and stable empires like in China.

Question: Why does the word closet have two different meanings ?
Answer: what are the two meanings you think it has?

Question: What happens to your body when it has a seizure?
Answer: A seizure occurs when there is out-of-control electrical activity in your brain. A seizure can take many forms, ranging anywhere from an involuntary muscle twitch, to "blanking out," to losing consciousness and convulsing on ground uncontrollably (which most people think of when they hear the word "seizure"). Seizures can take many forms because they have many causes.  They can be focal (i.e. propagating from one area of the brain, such as with a brain tumor or a brain bleed), or can be global (seizure activity everywhere in the brain at once, such as with metabolic disturbances).

If you suspect somebody has a seizure, the first diagnostic test to get is an EEG (electroencephalogram), which is essentially an EKG for the brain. It graphs the electrical activity of the brain. A trained neurologist can interpret normal brain wave activity and differentiate it from possible seizure activity. If you are certain that there is seizure activity, you get an MRI to look for any structural abnormalities that can cause seizures (trauma, tumors, AV malformations, etc).

Seizures are treated in many different ways. Ideally, you treat the underlying cause (get rid of the tumor, correct the metabolic abnormality, etc), but sometimes this isn't possible. You can also treat them with medications called anti-epileptic drugs. There are many AED's, with different mechanisms of action and different side effects (agitation, suicidal ideations, dizziness, risk of taking when pregnant). Choosing the right AED can be tricky, because you have to know what type of seizure you're treating, and weigh the risk of side effects with the benefit of hopefully stopping the seizures.

Almost everyone will have a seizure at some point in their life, and most of us don't remember having one. Needless to say, not everybody is on an AED. We reserve treatment for people who have had multiple seizures (epilepsy), or are at risk of having multiple seizures.

Identifying triggers and avoiding them is a must (avoiding sleep deprivation, bright/flashing lights, etc). Ketogenic diets have also been found to be beneficial in reducing seizure activity in some patients. Also, patients with epilepsy must know how to avoid certain activities in case they have a seizure while doing them (driving, climbing ladders, cooking with gas, stepping into bath tubs).

If you see somebody that you suspect is actively seizing, the best thing to do is give them room, keep others back, and call 911. Do NOT try and hold them down, and do NOT stick anything in their mouth. It is a common misconception that people with seizures will swallow their tongue. This is physically impossible.

Epilepsy is a very common neurologic disorder. Fortunately, we live in a time where we have so many different ways to treat seizures. New medicines are being invented all the time. Vimpat, for example, was just approved by the FDA 8 years ago, and is now used in hospitals all around the United States. We still have a long ways to go, but we're making great progress in treating epilepsy.

Question: How do indoor shooting range backstops work?
Answer: I was going to write out a long post on this, but it turns out someone has done it before me and even has pretty pictures.

[Here is a good rundown of indoor range backstop options in a PDF.](_URL_0_)

The two basic approaches are angled barriers that deflect bullets into a catchment area, or soft materials like sand or rubber that decelerate bullets safely. Often these approaches are combined, and each has its own pros and cons.

Question: how massive public companies go private. For example, Dell going private a few years ago and Michael Dell apparently banking off the transition. Follow-up: the Dell and EMC merger.
Answer: so, in the specific instance of the Dell privatization, Michael Dell took out a giant loan from several financial institutions and made a deal with the major stockholders to purchase the stocks.  He also used that money to buy a significant number of public stocks and use his newfound majority to 'purchase' the remainder of the stock.

His bet was that he could re-work the company as a private investor to make it worth more money than the value of his loans.

Question: How do gas masks work?
Answer: There are 2 types. One type is a air purifying, the other is air supplying.

An air purifying would use filters of different types to "clean" the air you breath. For instance, a P100 air filter would clean out dust and debris, as well as some organic material.

Air supplying is obviously, as it sounds, providing you with fresh air from a hose, usually attached to a bottle, with compressed air.

Question: How are those metal soaps able to take off the smell of food from our hands? Like that of fish and other quite pungent food?
Answer: It doesn't work. Here is a site that talks about it: _URL_0_ or you can do some more research online. There isn't much else to say.

Question: The movement of long string-like things through the air/water
Answer: It’s a ripple in the air-filled material propagating through the arms, a traveling wave of vibration. These waves originate from the movement of the larger body, which all the arms (which are all about the same) are connected to. So they all move in about the same way. 

The light weight in air and the bulkiness—and sheer size—of the kite is what makes this movement look so trippy. Beautiful kite.

Question: I´ve been reading that Iceland didn´t bail out their banks but bailed out the people. What does that mean, and how did they do it?
Answer: They basically said "we will bail out domestic depositors, but not international investors". Most of these international investors had already been bailed out through their own banks who expected Iceland to make good on its promises. When Iceland reneged on the deal, there was a lot of pressure on Iceland to make good on it, both in courts and through international diplomacy. It's still not fully resolved.

The line that "they bailed out the people, not the banks" looks good on a Facebook meme. But the reality is they bailed out their own people by screwing over British and Dutch banks and investors, because Iceland's banking fund for such things was not properly capitalized.

Question: Who uses Webmail and who uses things like POP and IMAP?
Answer: Web mail is great of you always have an internet connection and hence can access your mail providers servers. You get to take advantage of things like mail folders and smart anti-spam filters as part of this.

If you find yourself without internet access (for example, someone with a laptop and travelling) but needing to get into your (historical) mails, you will need to have a mail client installed, and it would have had to pull down a local copy of the mails in question (via pop3/IMAP). This then allows you to work on these mails and pen responses, ready to send when you have internet access.

I won't go into the advantages of pop3 vs IMAP, but can if needed :)

Question: Why do we forget most of our dreams after waking up?
Answer: Recalling dreams has a lot to do with mindfulness of one's conscience, your inner dialogue, imagination, etc. So I think we often forget our dreams because we just aren't trained to recall them. But then you might remember a dream that was intense or had an emotional response. I feel like the same thing is true for your conscience while you're awake. I mean just think for a minute - how much of your inner dialogue do you remember from today, specifically? Or how much of your imagination wanderings do you remember from today while you were awake? If you're like me, not that many. Recalling your dreams is similar in my mind. 

You have to train your brain in mindfulness of your conscience while awake and eventually you'll start doing so while you're dreaming too. Keeping a dream journal or mindfulness meditation can aide in this - and you can eventually get to the point where you can lucid dream which is a real treat!

Question: Why does eating uncooked dough make your stomach sick?
Answer: Most doughs have eggs in the ingredients.  You can get sick from uncooked eggs / bacteria.  regardless of eggs, bacteria tends to only go dormant when it's cold.  Bacteria can pop right back to life at room temperature and even in your gut.  It takes about 160 F to kill bacteria.  Cook your food throughly first.  Except good steaks.

Question: What's the difference between Spotify Radio and Pandora?
Answer: The difference is mostly in their aim. Say you like the music of pink floyd, and go to pandora. Pandora will create a playlist of progressive rock, psychedelic stuff, and some pink floyd, with aims of showing you the varied musical world revolving around pink floyd, opening the proverbial pandora's box.

Now say you went on spotify and told it you liked pink floyd, you would get a nice Pink floyd playlist.

Different sites, with different aims, that is all.

Question: Why is it that you can *feel* like you're forgetting something?
Answer: Simply put: Because you're remembering that you had to remember something, but you're not remembering *what*.

Hence, you feel like you're forgetting... something.

Question: E: How come intangible assets (e.g. patents) do not depreciate even though they have an estimated useful life (i.e. they expire)?
Answer: Accounting student here, about to graduate.  They do depreciate but they give it a different name. Its called amortization.

Question: depression among young people who are half asian and half white
Answer: /r/hapas generally believes a significant portion, if not the majority, of Asian women who bear children with White men do not have a positive view of the Asian race. Sort of the opposite of Black pride. The sub calls these people "White Worshippers." These women wish to erase or minimize their own Asian identity so they throw themselves to White men. Obviously, self-loathing parents make bad parents. Meanwhile, White men who have trouble courting women will pick the low-hanging fruit that are these "White Worshippers." Obviously, men who have difficulty in attracting women are probably flawed in some way or another. Both of these factors increase the chances of an unhealthy family.

This is an overgeneralization by /r/hapas. Obviously, there are many Asian women who are proud of their race and White men who have no trouble with women.

There was a study that concluded Asian men who bear children with White women significantly outearn (4x? I forgot) White men who bear children with Asian women, so their families are generally more stable. This mitigates the depression in their children.

However, a bigger source of depression is arguably not the family, but society in general. Despite the ideals of equality, ethnicity is still a very important part of identity in America. A mixed-ethnicity child will face more ostracization, even in the most tolerant communities, because he or she will have trouble fitting in with pure-ethnicity peers. This is common to all ethnicities, Black-White, Latino-White, etc.

source: lurked on /r/hapas for many months

Question: Economically, what would happen to the world if all of the Walmarts were to shut down?
Answer: Their business would move to other companies. In time, another company (probably Target) would move into the space left by Walmart, and would become the new Walmart.

So, in essence, nothing substantive would happen, other than a name change.

Question: How is it possible for female ducks to have evolved with protective vaginas?
Answer: The female duck isn't abstinent; it wants to *select* the best drake (male duck) to mate with. Ducks only mate once a year, and often form monogamous pairs, so it may be "beneficial" for drakes to rape female ducks to increase the chance that the brood that is hatched that year contains the drake's DNA. However, this means that the female duck loses its selectivity. Since it is getting raped, it can't really chose the best drake to mate with. So it began to evolve a defensive mechanism to prevent the rapes, while still allowing mating with the chosen drake.

Question: how does the sit in that is going on in the House of Representatives work?
Answer: The House is in recess right now (could be wrong though) so the representatives there are basically sitting in protest and to draw attention to their cause. The House can go ahead and try to put a bill to vote or they could convene in another location if the Speak of the House decides to. That is in the procedural rules I believe

Question: Why modern cars have more of a whine/hum and older cars have roar/rumble.
Answer: Older cars tend to have a larger and slower engine, while newer ones usually have small, fast running engines. Also, there wasn't really any insulation around the engine or in the actual muffler to stop sound. If you were to chop the muffler off basically any new car with a decent sized engine, you'd see it sounds almost exactly like an older one

Question: Why next-generation consoles require massive (sometimes almost 100GB) downloads for games, both disc and virtual, while old consoles could survive with just 4GB of internal storage and could hold dozens of games
Answer: Its mostly for high definition or UltraHD textures for all the surfaces, and cutscenes if they are video clips.
Sound and music also use up a significant amount of space, but that reached peak quality many years ago.

And with the storage and bandwidth becoming less limited, the developers dont bother with compressing the files much, if at all. They dont see the need for optimization, though their customers would probably welcome it for most kinds of software.

Question: What keeps fungal infections like athlete’s foot, angular cheilitis or scalp seborrhea from spreading to other parts of the body?
Answer: These are local infections of fungi. The fungi are able to grow and reproduce in a specific microclimate. Outside of that area this ability does not help them enough.

The fungi for athlete's foot flourish inside shoes inside toes. The humidity is high. 

They do not penetrate the skin or grow large. They survive in a vary narrow ecological niche. Outside that niche they do not make it.

Question: So are mass shooters mentally ill or not?
Answer: Not all of them. 

And mental illness is a subjective thing, a spectrum based partially on behaviour. One of the main things that'll get you a mental health diagnosis is going out and shooting a bunch of people, which is a kinda crazy thing to do.

But 26% of American adults are diagnosed with a mental illness in a given year. But only 5% of people charged with gun crimes are diagnosed with a mental illness at time of crime.

But *clearly* mental health isn't the thing causing the US problem with mass shooters, because all countries have about the same amount of mental illness, but the US has a hugely disproportionate number of mass shooters.

Mental health by country graphic

_URL_0_

Same with the media and celebrity; all Western countries have similar media cultures and celebrity worship.

Whatever it is causing the US's incredibly disproportionate rate of mass shooters, its *definitely not* mental health, the media, or attitudes about celebrity, because all are similar in the US to those in Canada, Australia, UK, France, Germany, etc. So it must be something that is *very different* in the US, compared to those other countries...

Question: Why do we "dance" when we have to pee really bad?
Answer: Anything to take your mind off of the urgency.  Alternately, you could slam a car door on your hand to take away the pee urge.

Question: How does a infant's heart work in a transplant to a four year old?
Answer: The heart is a very versatile organ! It can handle much more work than a normal heart would in a normal body. 

The gap is a little short of 2 years so the development of the 18 mnth old heart and 4 yr old body isnt that much yet so the 18 mnth old heart can easily pump blood to the 4 yr old body.

A normal adult heart still works and pumps blood on a morbidly obese person.
That is how versatile a heart is!

2. Yes but the heart can handle it, as the body grows, the heart also grows and reach maturation in which the 2 year gap between the heart and body wont even matter anymore

3. No, an adults heart is just too big to be transplanted to a toddler

Question: What is that sensation where you hear something inside your own head when falling asleep sometimes?
Answer: _URL_0_

I experience this on a regular basis. Just wait until you are able to interact with the noise... Not a good time.

Question: Why do we grunt when standing/bending?
Answer: Breath in and then tense up your abs--while holding your breath in. You should feel the air pushing up against your closed throat. 

Now relax (you can start breathing again now, too.)

Tense up your abs again, this time without holding your breath. The air can escape now! When you grunt, you're simply using this air to vocalize--that is, make sounds with your throat. 

Here's a tip: the next time you do a sit-up, breathe out on your way up and breathe in on your way down. This will keep your core nice and focused when it needs to be.

Question: How did the court come up with the punishments for crimes. eg. 15 years maximum for GBH.
Answer: They make it up!

With the war on drugs came a big dick measuring contest with who's going to be "tough on crime".  The 24 hour news cycle solidified this.

Let's say youre a politician trying to make their mark and you hear about this new drug that the kids are using.  Well marijuana carries a one year sentence(misdemeanor) and cocaine 5 (felony), and this drug is "bad" so let's make it a felony since felonies are bad.. 5 years.  If we make the sentence one year or rehab the media will blast me for being soft on crime, better make it 5.  

That's why things that were considered relatively minor years ago are now felonies.  Also no one usually gets the max.  They stack multiple felonies against you and you plea guilty.  That is another issue though

Question: When I have a bad cold and lose my voice, why can I still whisper and it sound like a normal whisper?
Answer: Because whispering is half of speaking. 

Your vocal chords generate a tone, which your mouth then shapes and filters into various sounds. But you can replace the tone with "loud breathing" - i.e. noise - and get a very similar effect to speech. This is what we call whispering. 

So when you're sick, the part of you that sounds different is the tone-generating part. Your mouth doesn't stop being able to filter sounds, you just have a problem with the input part. But when you whisper, no tone is involved, so you sound the same as when you're healthy. 

Source: former sound engineer

Question: What long term damage does weed have on your body? (Assuming that you smoke 5-6 times per week)
Answer: While many drugs have symptoms that appear rapidly weed has a longer span of time needed to produce effects. Some people can smoke weed for their entire life and have no issue similar to some people being able to handle other drugs. Only recently have scientists found results that weed (THC) has ill effects. The main reactions that happen are symptoms of withdrawal e.g. mood swings, that do tend to clear up over time. THC has been linked to mental health issues by worsening the effects of depression or interfering with medication. 

Now here comes the less supported parts. Many people in the business environment feel that people who smoke weed are less ambitious as time goes on. Since it is hard to measure ambition it is just stated and hard to support. 

It has been found that 1 in 10 users become addicted to weed. From what I have looked into I am unsure as to if this is an effect of  THC or the act of smoking but those who smoke weed over time also have a higher risk of heart attacks and other cardiovascular issues. 

Edit: THC, the compound responsible for the "high" of weed affects people differently. It is also hard to separate the difference between THC's and smoking's effects. If you want to read some of the sources I have found there is a mixture of government, organizations, and educational pages. I encourage you to read them but there will be bias as many government sources are against the use of weed. 

_URL_2_
_URL_1_
_URL_5_
_URL_4_

The most helpful one I found was a Peer-Reviewed paper on the effects on the brain of weed but is not always easy to follow. _URL_3_ 

Also some sources have suggested that the medicinal use of "Cannabis" has damaged the liver and kidneys less than medical drugs treating similar problems. _URL_0_

Question: Can animals develop a taste for music such as humans do?
Answer: My cat will tap her tail to the beat of music playing on the stereo, I can't confirm if shes enjoying it or not though. 

My grandmother has an African Grey parrot, he has the capacity to learn anything, but there are specific sounds he picks up immediately and uses often while other things it takes a lot of repeating to get him to learn.  He will also dance (bob his head and step back and forth on his branch), but only to some music. Also unknown if he's "enjoying" it or just finds it more interesting.

Question: If there is no such thing as "zero gravity" but only things constantly falling, is the entirety of the Universe constantly falling towards somewhere or are things only constantly falling towards each other due to gravity?
Answer: Yes they are, which is why you get spiral galaxies. However the falling towards each other is offset by the original expansion of the universe from the big bang.

Question: How do our bodies create a vacuum to inhale air?
Answer: Your diaphragm relaxes. Naturally your body wants to be full and your diaphragm contracts to push air out. Then it relaxes to pull it back in.

Question: Why do sounds early in the morning appear much louder than they are during the day?
Answer: Less ambient backround noise. The world is still asleep, so the normal noise of life (traffic, kids, electricity humming in lines etc) is not as loud as it would be during the day when the world is awake.

Question: Why don't phone batteries limit charging after reaching some threshold charge percent?
Answer: They do. Any device powered by a rechargeable lithium ion battery has a charge controller. Batteries are charged by applying a voltage greater than the cell voltage of the battery. If lithium ion batteries are left with a higher voltage applied after they are finished, they could catch fire.

Question: Why exposing a company with factual information can end up getting you sued?
Answer: They can sue you if they feel like it. They have the right to sue you.  It might get thrown out in court by a judge, but it doesn't mean they can't sue you, make you rack up legal bills in your defense or whatever until a judge sees the case and makes a decision.

Simply suing someone is generally a bigger threat than the merits of a case, because a powerful side can complicate things so much that it bleeds you dry on money and time, while being mundane for the big boy.  Completely normal business/legal practices

Question: Why are models usually stoic? Won't we find a smiling person more engaging, therefor attracting us more to the product?
Answer: If the model is physically beautiful but the shot is moody, serious, and appears aloof and unrelateable to the viewer it creates a kind of mystique and unattainable vibe (cold, aka "cool"), which gives the product its own appeal. You don't want to be friends with the model, but you want to be them.  
Runway models are acting as living mannequins and too much expression would distract from the garments they are showcasing.

Question: Why is it that most singers close their eyes when singing?
Answer: Why do I stick my tongue out when learning new song on my guitar?  No doubt the act of closing their eyes can be part of the performance, for show, but it is also part of getting into the moment, concentrating, and settling nerves.  I don't know of any studies on the topic and a quick search didn't turn up anything too specific (I didn't look super hard).  When concentrating on one thing intently most people have "autonomic" responses that are not consciously done.  Even when a skill is mastered closing ones eyes can increase hearing or touch.  

I don't know if there is one answer to your question, because it would depend.  That is the most common answer to psychological questions: it depends.

Question: What is dabbing?
Answer: Marijuana's active ingredient is delta-9 THC. This chemical is most concentrated in the flowers of the plant, and in turn in resin glads within the flowers. By using various chemical means, this resin can be extracted and concentrated into a thick substance called 'dabs.'

Dabbing is simply smoking this concentrated resin in a specially designed pipe. It allows the user to intake more active ingredient than other forms of marijuana use because it is so concentrated and there is so little plant matter along with it.

Question: Where does having a soul and spirituality fall on the religious spectrum?
Answer: You're at least mildly spiritual and not likely very religious.

Generally I spiritual as a view that there is more to existence than first meets the eye. There is a deeper meaning or at least perspective going on that is hard to pinpoint.

Religious is more often a set of beliefs or practices. Going to church. Attending religious holidays. Reading holy books on the regular. Faith in a particular God or way of life.

Often times you'll have religious people that may not even be spiritual. Religion is more a culture than a part of their worldview or understanding of life. There are nice traditions that they enjoy participating in. 

If you're spiritual you may not believe there is any particular answer to life, or way to view it, other than to be aware that you've got a spirit and it needs to be taken care of like your body.

A religious spiritual person will generally believe most or all of what they faith system preaches as reality. Possibly as only metaphorical explanations, but rooted in truth nonetheless and faultless. They'll feel some degree of having answers. 

There are plenty of places and mixes between these though. This is the most thorough I can be in my phone, hope it's at least something to ponder.

Question: "Who are you wearing?"
Answer: The red carpet is basically a celebrity fashion show. The designers loan the celebrities clothing for free, in exchange for having their name mentioned. Reporters are interested because when someone wears a good-looking new design, they want to know who was the clever designer who made it. It is like appreciating art.

Question: Why car manufacturers name their cars after the year after they are first released
Answer: Marketing.  

Would you buy a 2010 Toyota when you could have the 2011 Ford?

Question: How/why did Los Angeles, the second-largest US city, not have a home NFL team for 20+ years?
Answer: 3 primary reasons. 1 - The NFL has TV blackouts in the area if the local team doesn't sell out their home game. LA had two teams in two different divisions, so games would be blacked out all the time when one of the teams wasn't great and didn't sell out. So when the two teams left, and LA could watch all the football it wanted, it was kind of nice.

2 - La refused to build a stadium. If someone wanted to move a team, the owner had to pay for it themselves.  Smaller cities felt it was more important for civic reasons to keep a team, so they would help build a new stadium.  When teams threatened to move to LA, the current city would offer help in building a brand new stadium and LA would not, so the teams would stay. And LA did not in part because...

3 - There's a ton to do in LA; lots of other professional teams, multiple high-level college teams, the beaches, hollywood, etc. So LA didn't care as much about having a team as a city that is more defined by its sporting program to get on the map. So in general, the attitude from LA was "sure, we'd like another team, but we're not going to make a huge effort over it because we're kind of too cool to show we care"

Question: A question from r/adviceanimals: Why do gifs load slower than HD video?
Answer: A gif is a series of images played in succession, like a flipbook.

Videos are encoded. Very smart people do fancy things to make it so that the file is smaller. For example, a lot of the time, most of the stuff on-screen isn't moving, so the computer doesn't bother drawing it again: the software just says "yeah, leave that stuff there, it's good where it is." For a GIF, the computer has to draw it again even if there was no change, because it doesn't know any better.

You may notice that videos often get more blurry and choppy when there's movement, and that's a large part of the reason.

Question: Why do some wires, such as phone chargers, eventually become fussy and work only when placed into a very specific position?
Answer: Cables like that are made up of a bunch of very thin wires inside.  If you abuse your cables, such as by coiling them up very tightly, you can break the internal wires or the connections between the wire  &  the connector.

Treat your cables well - don't coil them up tighter than they were when you bought them.  Pull out by the connector, not the cable.  Don't try to make tight bends with the cable at the point where it meets the connector.

Question: Why is it nearly impossible to move your eyes individually?
Answer: You can move them separately as an infant, and lose the ability to do so around 4 months. The reason is because our eyesight is only in focus when we track with both eyes, and as an infant, there is no benefit to not seeing in focus. Infants' only goal is to develop as quick as possible, which means your brain essentially removes any functions that make it harder to develop or survive. This includes removing your ability to move your eyes separately by essentially connecting them in your brain. You tell one eye to look at a thing, and the signal is sent to both eyes. 

Another random fact: if a baby has one eye that doesn't work as well as the other, the brain will cut the connection to that eye at one year of age if corrective actions are not taken, for the same reasons mentioned above.

Question: Why is all life on earth based on RNA/DNA ?
Answer: The simple answer is that it works so well. A system which works well has advantages of anything else. So there are more descendents using it than any other.

One interesting variant is mad cow disease and its relatives. This is not life as we know it but the proteins are copied. So the disease is propagated without using nucleic acid.

Question: How can movies show little kids smoking cigarettes?
Answer: The cigarettes are most likely vaporisers, with fake cigarettes so that it looks real. 

Most movies I've seen of kids smoking were from decades ago though, when smoking was thought of as normal. I actually haven't seen many recent films where children.are smoking.

Question: Why is body odor usually confined to the armpit, even when a lot of people take extra measures to protect against it?
Answer: The human body has two types of sweat glands: eccrine and apocrine. Eccrine glands are present all over, and typically secrete sweat that is mostly made of water. Their purpose is to keep your body cool when you're exposed to heat or enduring intense exercise. Apocrine glands, however, are located in targeted areas of the body—the armpits, for example—and they don’t really do much to cool you down. Instead they release proteins and lipids, and those molecules are the real smell culprits. Bacteria that live on the outside of your armpits feed on the secreted lipids, allowing them to thrive. They also disrupt the outer shell of the proteins that are secreted, releasing odor.

Question: Why do arcade games that use game cards have to still count the tickets by ones or twos on the card swiper screen? Can't they just instantly put it on your card?
Answer: You don't notice digital transactions as much as physical ones.  One common piece of advice is to tell people to deal with daily small transactions in cash; you're less likely to buy that bagel and coffee every day if you have to pull cash from your wallet every time, rather than if you just mindlessly swipe a card.

Arcades want you to think nothing about how much you are spending, but physical tickets make it seem like you're winning a lot.  You're just swiping your card, but netting a bunch of tickets when you do well.  They're hoping you notice less that you just spent $20 and got yourself an eraser.

Question: How come a drug developed to treat one disease, can be found to treat other unrelated diseases?
Answer: Imagine you have two circles of friends, circle A and circle B.

Sometime circle A is feeling down and needs cheering up, and sometimes circle B is feeling down.

So what you decide to do is pick one person from circle A and cheer them up, in doing that they go back to the other people in circle A and cheer them up.

Now it turns out, that this person in circle A is also in circle B, so you discover that cheering up this person lifts the mood of both circle A and circle B!

This is analogous to the way drugs work, replace "circle A" and "circle B" with disease A and disease B, and replace the person with a protein or other drug target.

The protein interaction network (kind of like a social network) contains individuals which are shared in the parthenogenesis of more than one disease. So making a drug which targets this protein can help in more than one disease.

Question: How does bcrypt work?
Answer: It does store the salt.  It's prepended to the final hash.

Question: - high heart rate
Answer: 190 bpm while running for a person around 30 years old is considered average, so according to that, yours is higher than average but not dangerously high.

Don't forget the possibility that the watch isn't perfect at monitoring your heart rate. The best and easiest way is to do it yourself. Find your pulse, set a time on your watch/phone for ten seconds, and count how many pulses you feel. Afterward, multiply by 6.

Question: What's the point of having and operating CCTV if you can rarely actually identify anyone using it?
Answer: Detterent. Cheaper insurance. And even though you may not be able to identify people, it still serves to show what happened, which is often useful for insurance and legal purposes.

Question: Why do singers scrunch up their shoulders or move their hand up and down when they sing higher/lower?
Answer: By flexing the diaphragm it changes the pitch and tone of the note. Sometimes it takes auxillary muscles. Imagine someone flexing their bicep with a straight arm. But they dont get the most of it. Also some is ritual.

Question: Why is a photocopying machine so huge compared to a normal colour printer?
Answer: There are very small photocopiers too.

On the large ones, most of the extra size is for complex paper handling: several large supplies of different sizes of paper; a collator that can make 10-20 separate copies of a whole document; sometimes an auto-stapler; a high-speed jam-resistant paper feeding and duplexing mechanism.

Question: How do we know that two identical snowflakes have never existed and never will?
Answer: The reason we can say no two snowflakes are identical with such high confidence is due to the absolutely disgusting number of possible differences that can occur in the formation of a snowflake. To put it into perspective, take a deck of cards and shuffle it. Statistically speaking, the order in which the cards end up (from top to bottom or bottom to top) has never existed in the history of mankind.

This is because a deck of 52 cards can have 52! (52 factorial) different ways to end up after being shuffled. Thats 8,065,817,520,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000 different combinations, and thats just with 52 variables (cards), this number is so big that our monkey brains actually don't understand just how big it is. 

Assuming "identical" here means down to a molecular level, then the formation of a snowflake would have millions, or billions or trillions of variables, i.e a number so big (1,000,000,000,000!) that
we can just about say "yea that's not happening, wrap it up and go home"

Question: What is up with the child entertainers of North Korea?
Answer: Yes, completely true. These kids are placed into these programs starting at a very early age and usually are "performers" for a while. People disguised it as a job of high honor and privilege but these kids go through a hard reality. For example, if you have ever seen the "mass games" in NK, there are thousands of child performers. These kids aren't given much food or water. They aren't given sufficient bathroom breaks either. This causes the children to have developing cystitis or other urinary tract ailments. If the kids do not perform as they could, the most common consequence is physical abuse with a stick.

Question: Which is a better, more practical healthcare option?
Answer: At 630 a month?
You should probably be looking into Medicaid.

The Obamacare marketplace is for people that make too much for Medicaid.  Part of this rollout was also a boost to how much you could make and not still qualify for medicaid--however, many (red) states chose to not take this option.  The federal government was even going to cover this increase in Medicaid costs for the first 2 years, but cannot force the states to change.

If you are in one of those states, this is very difficult for you, and I wish I had a better answer than talk to your congressmen.

Question: How do birds fly from standing still?
Answer: It certainly is not effortless, their wings are part of their body and flapping hard enough to shoot off the ground takes a lot of effort.

Their bodies are very light and their wings very large comparatively so a big strong flap pushes enough air to propel themselves.

Question: How come so many games are called top game or game of the year?
Answer: "By Who?" is the million dollar question, and also the answer.

My game can be called game of the year by review site number 57, while your game is called game of the year by review site 58, and somebody else's game can be game of the year by review site 59.

As long as somebody calls it game of the year its all legal.

Question: Besides bragging rights, for what reasons are countries still "racing" in space exploration?
Answer: imagine being in 2nd grade and everyone had home packed sandwiches and juice boxes and you were the first kid to have that baller ass pizza lunchable and caprisun combo. 

not only are you the coolest kid in the lunchroom, but you could trade that caprisun for way above its value---a juice box and a bag of oreos---because you're the only person who has it, thus increasing its rarity and value.

Question: how does the taliban manipulate people into thinking that there going to be accepted in heaven if they remove education or commit suicide bombings
Answer: People from "1st world" countries often don't realize how much more education and knowledge they have access to than people from 3rd world countries.  Knowledge is truely power in most circumstances.

Groups like the Taliban take advantage of the fact that certain peoples only education comes from their parents or elders, and this education can be easily manipulated to support their agenda.  It is not that hard to threaten the elders of a community that has no TV, radio, internet, or other access to the outside world in order to force them to support the agenda of the Taliban (to stay with your example).  As the young get older and come of age, all they know are these teachings, so to them they are the true way of the world.  

For groups where this will not work, they just threaten and deliver death to any who disagree.  After you watch a few of your friends or family executed, you learn to act a certain way in public, which can eventually lead to brainwashing yourself into actually believe it (it is weird what the human mind can and will do to keep itself alive/safe)

Question: Gauge theory
Answer: Avast ye! Yer not alone in askin', and kind strangers have explained:

1. [ELI5: Gauge Theory ](_URL_6_) ^(_1 comment_)
1. [ELI5:Gauge Theory and its relation to particle physics ](_URL_2_) ^(_14 comments_)
1. [ELI5: Gauge Theory, what is it exactly, why is it important? ](_URL_0_) ^(_2 comments_)
1. [ELI5: What is a good way of understanding gauge symmetries and gauge fields? ](_URL_3_) ^(_3 comments_)
1. [ELI5: Gauge Theory ](_URL_5_) ^(_3 comments_)
1. [Gauge theory in physics ](_URL_4_) ^(_1 comment_)
1. [ELI5:Gauge Symmetry ](_URL_1_) ^(_1 comment_)

Question: Psychogenic retrograde amnesia.
Answer: Psychogenic: created by the mind, rather than a physical condition

Retrograde: Affecting past memories, rather than the ability to create new ones

Amnesia: A loss of memory

Almost always tied to a deeper psychological issue, often a single incident that would be too painful to handle. Abuse, seeing something horrific, etc. Tends to be seen in children, or connected to incidences that occurred in childhood, as children haven't yet learned other coping mechanisms.

One could say that "drinking to forget" is an attempt to create this effect.

Question: How/why did China's population grow so large so fast?
Answer: Holy crap, something I can actually answer!

From what I remember in my Chinese history class, Leader Mao wanted a strong army and felt a large population was necessary. Lots of campaigns were led to convince people to have as many kids as possible. It didn't take long before the country had a massive population.

The only problem was lack of food. A massive famine came and wiped out a large amount of people, but not enough to even out the population. To this day, they've never really recovered, and even have laws in place to stop you from having too many kids.

Edit:
_URL_0_

I found a source!

Question: What is in magnets that make them magnets, as oppose to a piece of iron or other metal.
Answer: Permanent magnetism is caused when most of the electrons in an object have their spins aligned in the same direction.

There isn't really a way to ELI5 it.

Question: Where do "smells" go after they have dissipated?
Answer: Think of a glass of water being the gaseous area around you... The smelling zone... 
You now drop on drop of liquid food colouring into the glass, the dark heavy first impact area of that droplet represents, let's say a fart. 

After the initial impact of the fart it begins to dissipate into the rest of the water, trailing off, getting fainter and fainter. 

Fast forward 5 minutes and you can only barely see a hint of a slight mention of colour left in all of the glass because it's spread so far out that it's like it's not there, but it's just not discernable any  more.

Question: How come we don't get burns (or worse) on water slides?
Answer: The water acts as a thin barrier between you and the slide, so that reduces the friction to the point where you wont be burned.

As long as you're wet, you should be ok with a brush against the side (where the water doesnt flow), but sliding down when everything is dry would result in some serious friction burns.

Question: How is it possible for pasta to stick together in water when it is being boiled?
Answer: You are boiling the pasta in too little water, you really need at least a gallon of water at a rolling boil. What's happening is you are saturating the water with excess starch, it gelantizes and turns into glue. literally, it's library paste.

Question: Why do humans need a variety of sustenance in order to stave off malnutrition, but many animals can live on only a single food?
Answer: We eat a variety of foods to live *optimally*. In theory, you can survive off a singular diet, and as long as you get enough calories, you will live. However for optimal brain development in children, for the longevity of our bodies and living many years without disease/illness, we eat lots of different foods. For example, if you get very low amounts of calcium, you get weaker bones which will affect you as you start to age, however for most animals that is not a concern because a predator is likely to eat you by that time anyways.

Question: How can an Air Force pilot become so good at maneuvering something as complicated as an aircraft?
Answer: Navy jet guy here.

The ability to fly is simply the ability to take in a bunch of information and with it perform a ton of small and simple tasks in a timely and organized fashion. Flight training is built around this concept.

There are two very big ideas that every military aviator is subjected to during training. That every student is held to high standards, especially when it comes to personal responsibility, and that every part of training breaks things down to a step-by-step, crawl-walk-run process.

Military aviators are filtered out, before ever being put into training, through an entry exam and initial training as an officer. The exam and entry requirements make sure the applicant is at least somewhat studious and can commit time and resources towards a goal. The officer accession training ensures that an applicant is somewhat good at handling stress, accepting orders, and having multiple priorities at once. These aren't hard to get through for motivated people but they do a good job of weeding out certain types of people.

From then on, every phase of training loosely follows these steps - 

* Ground school (classroom and other non-flying instruction) 
* Simulator
* Flight

Among all of this instruction, a student is expected to study and practice skills on his own. Students are often held to standards of knowledge that aren't passed on through official instruction (gouge).

You have to show that you can pick up the knowledge in its various forms, apply it to simulators, then apply it to flight.

It starts with very basic flight knowledge and skills. The military will teach you even the most basic things such as elevator = stick fwd/back = down/up. You are tested on your knowledge before every event.

Each event introduces and reinforces certain skills. You start with very basic flying in a light aircraft. All of that maneuvering skill starts with flying fundamentals - how to fly straight, turn, climb, descend. As flying continues, these skills are combined to do various maneuvers. The practice of these maneuvers over dozens of hours is what makes you good at handling the aircraft.

When you combine those basic maneuvers with use of instruments and audio/visual cues, you develop precision of movement. After a while, you start figuring out how to fly precisely on feel alone, and you can use instruments to augment this precision depending on what situation you're flying in.

As you learn precision, you're subjected to higher standards. You fly aerobatics, formation, to the edge of your plane's performance limits. Then you add tasks among this. You learn how to do each little action with your systems among all the other little actions for flight you've already learned. You learn to shoot, drop bombs, fight, etc. You do it while operating systems and talking to other aircraft. As you get to each of these phases, the standards are increased. If you don't learn it in the time allotted, you'll find yourself in remedial training. Can't figure it out then, you'll be fighting to stay in the program. Can't figure it out after that, you either get lucky enough to be moved to something easier or get kicked out of aviation all together depending on your performance.

It's a long but very well studied and efficient process. The military can take someone with almost no knowledge and turn him into a beginner fighter pilot within a few years. In about the same amount of time in the fleet, the pilot learns how to lead large forces on complicated missions. It all works with this step by step approach that puts one building block on top of the other.

Question: What happens in your body when you lose appetite?
Answer: Certain chemicals in your brain stop telling it that you are hungry

Question: If climate change is such a massive problem, why can't the government create laws to begin to limit the usage of items that increase greenhouse gases, until they can gradually completely ban it?
Answer: In economics, it's called an "externality" when the impact or cost of some action will affect a person *other* than the person who's performing that action.

Air pollution is a famous example of an externality. Factories and trucks produce large amounts of smog that can affect plenty of people who had nothing to do with those factories and trucks. Companies who sell these products will generally resist efforts to limit that, because in their mind it's "not their problem".

Climate change is similar. There's an overwhelming scientific consensus that climate change will become an enormous problem for us, but there's no economic incentive for companies and countries to change that *right now* -- the harms and benefits won't be felt for many years, and when you're asking companies to spend billions of dollars on something they're going to want a more direct benefit.

It's one of those circumstances where short-term individual interests are at odds with the long-term common good. Elected officials are hesitant to act because they would risk losing lobbyist support and because voters aren't (yet) convinced this an important issue.

Question: How can a fired ex-employee sue their boss for discrimination? Couldn't the boss just make up a reason for firing them (attitude, wardrobe, etc)?
Answer: The person suing would take all the evidence they have that it was disfrimination, the person being sued would take all the evidence they have that it was another reason, and a judge would decide whose story is more likely.

If someone believes they were fired for discrimination, the boss most of done some discriminatory things. That likely means there's evidence. It's possible, but very unlikely, there would be no evidence-- until we perfect telepathy, we'll never have a perfect system that can decide court cases with no evidence either way.

Question: I'm from the UK and only heard about Comcast recently; what is so bad about it?
Answer: Cable company and ISP. People get mad at their admittedly poor customer service and their state reinforced local monopolies (rarely do ISPs compete with each other in the US). Then a bunch of people whose mothers pay their cable bill come to Reddit to complain that they aren't getting free gigabit to their house.

Question: The men/women financial gap
Answer: There two questions: Is there a gender gap? Why?

To answer your first question: yes. Full-time women workers make between 77 and 83 percent what a full-time male worker makes in Western Nations. The [wiki article](_URL_0_) has cites.

The more interesting question is why. It could be due to gender differences or outright discriminiation, and there's debate.

 One reason, as you point out, is that men are more likely to work higher paying jobs like Engineering or Management while women are more likely to work lower paying jobs like Teacher or Nurse. 

Another is that women often take time off to have kids while men keep working - the end result is the person with more years of experience has higher pay, regardless of gender. It's just that women will have fewer years of experience because they took time off to raise kids.

Another is how they handle job offers and raises. Men are more likely to take a high paying job they don't like, more likely to negotiate for a higher salary, more likely to push for a raise, and more likely to seek promotion. Women are more likely to take a fulfilling job with low pay, more rarely negotiate salary, more rarely push for raises, and are less likely to seek promotion. There's nothing wrong with either side, but that will cause women to get paid less.

[This cite](_URL_1_) claims after you correct for factors like having actually the same job, working the same hours,the gap narrows to about 5% instead of 20%. It then points out that because women tend to take time off to be moms, they lower their expected career wages. Seems fair to me.

So, on average women get paid less, but when you correct for things like experience, profession, hours worked, and seniority, the gap seems to vanish. 

EDIT: spelling

Question: How do the battery meters in phones/laptops/other electronics 'adapt' to changing battery life as a device ages?
Answer: Short answer - badly.

longer answer - they monitor the amount of energy that they are using and cross reference it with the measured battery voltage. If the battery voltage gets low enough that it's a good assumption that it's nearly dead, then the device re-calibrates its own estimate of what the capacity is.

Question: Bodybuilding, power lifting, strongman, crossfit training, calisthenics, etc. What's the difference?
Answer: Largely it's the goal of the training. Power lifting is strictly about developing strength for specific types of lifting. Body building is about developing muscle tone and size, but not necessarily strength. Calisthenics tends to use lighter or just body weight, with a goal toward overall aerobic fitness. Crossfit, at it's best, is a mix of weight lifting for overall strength and calisthenics for aerobic fitness.

Different sports and goals require different training methods.

Question: How do DDoS attacks work?
Answer: In simplest terms, DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service) attack in most cases consists of multiple malware infected PCs being controled by whoever is carrying out the attack, opening or requesting site content which consumes bandwidth and normal users can't access it or are having hard time accessing it.

Let's say you run a website like reddit, and you have a web server capable of handling 100mbps traffic i.e. you can "upload"/send your site's content with up to 100mbps speed to whoever wants to see it.

Now, when you open a thread on reddit it consumes small amount of that traffic, because you need to get number of upvotes, custom CSS, comments etc etc. Let's say this consumes 1mbps of traffic for 1 second.

The site works for everyone if all usage combined is below the web server limit (100mbps). If 100 users each trying to use 1mbps of traffic for a second at the same time open the site it will still work, but if there are 200 users opening the page at the same time the load time will be slower, since server isn't capable of giving out 1mbps of speed to 200 users at the same time. If you were to have 10 000 users open the site most of them probably won't be able to access it because it's too much traffic for the server.

If someone has access to thousands of computers which he can control using malware/virsues he can tell all those computers to access reddit each second and thus making the site inaccessible to most users. Picture:

_URL_1_


I'm not very good with basic explanations but hopefully it makes sense, feel free to ask any questions if you want or if you don't understand something.


Also worth checking out _URL_0_

Edit: In this particular case reddit is being attacked with 20 times its normal bandwidth.

Question: If an overweight person goes several days without eating to lose weight, what are the unhealthy side effects this has on the body?
Answer: Fasting is fine, short term fasting with good liquid intake is not going to be detrimental for a healthy individual. Good luck keeping it up though, the will power required is astronomical.

Question: Why is my belly button lint always navy blue, regardless of my t-shirt color?
Answer: Overwhelming the clothes you wear are of darker colours, blue, grey, black etc. The lint is build up over time. Dr Karl (an Australian scientist) actually studied this. He recently did an AMA too, but I cant find it for you now. Interestingly, if you shave or generally have no stomach hair you dont get belly button lint. Think 'Sarlacc Pit', as the fabric rubs againt the stomach it's motioned toward the centre.

Question: How can London Heathrow get by on just TWO runways!?
Answer: I would assume those are just the primary take-off/landing runways. There is surely a series of smaller runways used for moving "into position" and taxiing around the airport. *Theoretically*, you could have a plane starting take-off while another is just leaving the ground on the other end.

I'm sure they are also quite efficient, but that doesn't mean other airports are redundant in their designs.

Question: Pain tolerance fluctuations (NSFW)
Answer: When you're doing the act, your adrenaline is flowing, your endorphins are up... your body is basically focusing itself on the act and tuning out other stimuli as much as possible.  

It's the same reason a punch hurts less if you're sweating and warmed up than if you get sucker punched.  Your body's in fight mode, and it's tuning out distractions like pain wherever it can.

Question: How do computers "delete" data? Where does that data "go"?
Answer: Data is stored on your hard drive as a bunch of 1s and 0s. The number 5 might be stored as 0000101. The letter 'R' might be stored as 00110010. 

Now, your data (word documents/music/porn) isn't the only thing on your hard drive. You'll also find programs (like web browsers and games) and your operating system (Windows, iOS, Ubuntu). There is also something called the **F**ile **A**llocation **T**able or **FAT**. The FAT helps the operating system keep track of everything on your hard drive. The FAT knows that Star Craft 2 is stored on platter 2 sector 9 of your hard drive and takes up 6 GB of space. It also knows that your thesis paper is on platter 1 sector 85 and takes up 12 KB of space. 

When you go to create a new document, you ask your operating system to save some space for you. The OS asks the FAT where some free space is located. The FAT will return some address on the hard drive and make a note that something important now lives there. The FAT is careful to only allocate space that doesn't already belong to something else.

So what happens when you delete something? The operating system tells the FAT "hey, you know that thing located on platter 2 sector 12? That's not important any more". Now, the OS *could* go to that unimportant space on the hard drive and turn everything into a bunch of 0s (effectively removing the data from that section), but it doesn't. Why? Because turning a bunch of bits to 0 takes a long time. Instead, the OS just informs the FAT to mark that particular section as uninteresting, and it goes on with its day.

Later, the OS might ask for a free chunk of hard drive space. The FAT may give the OS an address that has never been use for anything... or the FAT may give the OS an address that used to belong to an important document, but has now been marked unimportant. In the second case, the OS will happily just scribble all over the old document (or a subsection of the old document) effectively erasing what used to be there. 

In summary, when you delete something the only thing that happens to it is it gets marked as unimportant. Later you might scribble over it and make the original document unrecoverable. You can also buy some security software that will delete your data *for good* (writing a bunch of 0s or maybe a repeating pattern of 1s and 0s).

Question: The battle of Stalingrad (lack of Russian armor)
Answer: Most of the fighting in the battle of Stalingrad happened inside the city itself where armor is not all that useful.  Tanks are powerful in open country because they can bust a hole in the enemy's lines and then move into their rear areas and wreck their command and supply units. Inside a city a tank is basically reduced to being a mobile pillbox, and one that's fairly vulnerable at that.

[Operation Uranus](_URL_0_), the follow on operation that lead to the encirclement and destruction of the German 6th Army made extensive use of armor.  In this case Soviet tanks (with infantry support) broke a hole in the flanks on both sides and then raced to meet in the middle, forming a pocket that trapped the bulk of the German forces inside. This kind of high speed high impact fighting was what tanks were meant for, so it's how the Soviets used them in this case.

Question: How does the concept of Universal Basic Income work?
Answer: The idea is that instead of need based aid, which requires a huge, inefficient bureaucracy to administer, you just give everyone a set amount of money.  

Welfare, education, health care, retirement, all of those, at least in part, are provider for with a basic stipend everyone gets.  Those who don't need it will still get it, but typically they will be on the ones bearing the tax burden to pay for it.

If all goes well, having a healthier, more educated, and happy society will pay the costs of basic income over the long run.

Question: How do (did some) hunting tribes survive living of an all-meat-diet (like some Inuit tribes)?
Answer: They eat a lot of things like organs, fat, and bone marrow that contain more nutrients than the normal cuts of meat you'd find at the grocery store.

It's entirely possible to meet your nutritional requirements on a totally carnivorous diet if you're willing to eat the "gross" parts of animals.

Question: What would happen if you put sunscreen (or some form of spf) on plants/trees?
Answer: Plants have a waxy coating, cuticle, on their leaves which protect against the environment. The underside of the leaf opens at night and allows the leaf to respire. The plant also produces flavonols that protect against uv rays. Basically nothing will happen to the plant of you applied Sun block unless you applied it to the underside of the leaf, blocking the stroma that are required for release of O2 and intake of CO2.

Question: What do the dilation drops actually do to your eyes and why does it make your eyes sensitive to light?
Answer: Dilation drops open up your pupils, much like they would naturally do in the dark, to allow more light in. Helps the doctor see better when he's examining your eyes. Going outside while your pupils are dilated hurts because your pupils are already open and they can't retract like they would normally, so the light is POURING into your eyes. Tried to explain that as best as possible.

Question: Seriously, what is the deal with airline food?
Answer: Airline food has to be prepared many hours in advance, then kept warm until it's needed. Hundreds of meals have to be kept in a very tiny space. It needs to be cooked on an industrial scale. It's not an easy task.

Of course it could be done if they wanted to. But:

 >  Why doesn't competition between airlines.....

Airlines don't compete on the quality of food. When have you ever had a choice between two airlines, and chosen the one with the best food? Airlines compete on routes, on the times of their flights, and most importantly, on price.

Question: What is the royal family’s job?
Answer: The Queen is the official head of the government and the ultimate authority by which it is operated. What good does any monarch provide for their country?

In a practical sense she doesn't make many decisions but she can fire the Prime Minister if she wants and install someone else.

Question: Why are livers prone to failure, when they can regrow themselves?
Answer: Livers aren't prone to fail over time due to alcohol, that is the wrong way to look at it.

Livers valiantly extend the lives of people dead set on drinking themselves to death, holding out for as long as they can.

Question: If phone numbers are public record why can't they be reverse searched?
Answer: >  why do they charge to find out who's actually calling you?

Because they *aren't* public record, so those companies need to buy the data from somewhere.  Granted, most land lines will appear in the white pages/directories, but those you obviously do not need to pay to get info (just go on the whitepages website).  _URL_0_ literally has a section that says "reverse phone lookup".

Question: Periods.. Other than humans very few animals have them. What are the other mammals doing differently?
Answer: Basically humans aren't like most other species. In many other species the mother controls the bloodflow and nutrients to the embryo. That's why several animals can miscarry their pregnancy on demand to evade a predator. Human females do not control this nutrient exchange. Basically once an embryo attaches itself to a womb it's there to stay.

The female prevents the unsuccessful embryos/unhealthy embryos from attaching themselves by discarding the womb monthly and starting over. 

[A fantastic TED video explaining](_URL_0_)

Question: What do people see when they look at me?
Answer: Have you never seen a pic of you?

Question: How come car companies use glass that shatters into a million peices as a windshield and not something like plastic?
Answer: Windshields behave the way they do for safety. It's a feature, not a problem. In the case of an accident, you get either a large cracked bendy piece of windshield, or you get lots of little round fragments that can't cut you and kill you as you experience the crash. Large shards (like you see in a normal window) would be super dangerous.

Plastic is softer than glass, so it would scratch and wear easily, as well as fading and yellowing over time, and broken plastic edges are nearly as sharp as normal glass edges, so it would be worse for safety and longevity.

Question: What's the point of drinking 8 glasses of water a day if I just urinate the majority of it?
Answer: What's the point in eating if I just poop most of it?

Question: Why use fans on heat sinks rather than a small thermoelectric generator feeding into the PSU?
Answer: Electricity is cheap and the amount you would get from most products that could utilize this is negligible. Small generators typically produce small voltages that would have to be converted, and large generators require large amounts of heat.  No reason to bother when you can pay $0.10 for more electricity than the generator would produce in 6 months. 

Pros of having thermoelectric generator
* Efficiency
* Long term energy (cost) savings

Cons
* Production cost
* Cost for consumer
* Size
* Higher potential for it to break
* Added complexity

Question: How do odds work? Such as 9-1 odds in horse racing?
Answer: I'll try to explain 9-1 odds like you're 5.

You're playing baseball with you're friend Dinah Soares. Dinah is really good at hitting home runs, and you are very jealous. She will hit 9 home runs before you even hit 1 home run. You have a third friend Sawyer B. Hind.

Sawyer is betting 3 Pokemon cards that YOU will hit a home run before Dinah. What is Saywers odds? His odds of winning the bet are 9-1, because Dinah will hit 9 home runs before you even hit 1. He is very unlikely to win this bet, therefore, I will put a LOT of pokerman cards on the line. I will call his bet with 100 pokerman cards. There is a very good chance I will win 3 pokerman cards, but there is a 10% chance I will lose 100.

Question: Why is the brain considered such a complex machine?
Answer: You are currently processing crystal clear images of your surroundings, focusing on this post, reading squiggles and translating them into sounds, connecting those sounds into words forming sentences with meaning while simultaneously feeling your hand on your mouse, smelling the air, hearing and interpreting sounds around you and doing about a million other things that are all controlled and fed back into your brain. And this is what you do absolutely effortlessly all the time, without even noticing.

edit: grammar

Question: Why do some dogs/cats see and hear what is on the TV as if it is actually right there in front of them, and others don't even notice that the TV is there?
Answer: The smarter animals ignore it because they know it is just a picture.

The dumb ones are fooled by the illusion.

Question: Why does my computer act 'groggy' when I start it up?
Answer: You might have a lot of background stuff like Steam, Skype, Spotify set to turn on when the computer goes up, you might wanna get CCleaner and check to see what starts up when you open your computer.

Question: How are people able to mimic voices of other people? What controls ones ability to mimic voices? Can you train yourself to mimic voices?
Answer: This question would be be answered by the great **Robin Williams**.

Question: Why does a small splash of vinegar result in perfect poached eggs, where the absence of vinegar results in stringy nonsense
Answer: The acid coagulates the proteins or whatever. 

Use fresh eggs, at least three or preferably four weeks from the use-by date.  They hold together just fine and are a billion times nicer than something artificially held together with vinegar. 

I don't get poached eggs when I go out any more because they often reek of the stuff and have a tough skin on the white. Maybe they are using far more than they need, but it's awful.

Question: You couldn't kill bacteria with 102° water, so why does your body heat up while you're sick?
Answer: The higher temperature boosts your body's immune system. It's more effective at higher temperatures. Of course, it's a fine balance, because above 105°, the heat starts causing serious brain damage.

Question: Why don't things burn instantly?
Answer: It needs to heat up to the point where it has enough energy to combust. 

Also not everything is very flammable

Question: How are pranks where people dress up like police officers legal? Is this not covered by laws against "impersonating an officer"?
Answer: Impersonating an officer only applies when you attempt to use the power an officer has such as pulling over another car, detaining a person or trying to acquire goods or information. 

With a prank, no harm is done. It's revealed that is it a prank shortly after and good times are had by all.

Question: How did the ancient civilizations map out coastlines?
Answer: They just estimated them, by sailing around and eyeballing distances. Take enough data and distances, and you can construct a decently accurate map of the coastline. Enough for navigation purposes, at least.

Question: How to implement the pentatonic scale (or any type of scale for that matter) over a simple I-IV-V progression.
Answer: A pentatonic scale fits nicely with all of those chords, so really you have the world at your fingertips when it comes to improvising over those chords using the pentatonic scale. When you want to hit a long note, try to chose one that is a note in the chord you are on at the moment, or maybe a 7th or a 9th (with jazz its highly likely that one or both of these notes is actually in the chord).  Otherwise just experiment, with that combination it will be hard for you to play something "wrong"

Question: Why I can hear my dreams before I'm completely asleep?
Answer: Don't worry about your sanity, you're experiencing hypnagogia, a very common part of the transitional state between waking and sleep. People experience a wide range of sensory phenomena, such as: random noises ranging from buzzing to random speech to explosions; visual effects like bright flashes, colorful speckles, geometric shapes, or even fleeting vivid images; and some others like feelings of floating, bobbing, being misshapen, or a falling feeling followed by a sudden jerk.

There are even more experiences that have been documented, but these are just a few of the more common ones.

Question: Why does more electronic storage cost more?
Answer: In some cases, the manufacturing process is a lot more complex to make the item that has more storage, even if it isn't physically any bigger.

In other cases, they make many storage devices, all with the higher amount of storage. Some of them are faulty, and can't store as much as they're supposed to, so they get re-configured as lower storage devices and sold off cheaper.

In the case of the iPhone (since you specifically mention it), the amount you pay for a bit of extra storage is far more than the cost of that extra storage. They charge this much purely because they know that some people will pay for it. At the end of the day, remember if you're asking "why does something cost X", the reason is usually because that's what people will pay for it, far more than because that's what it costs to make. But this is especially true in high-end devices like iPhones.

Question: If a ninth planet exists and easily fits our readings and models, why haven't we found it yet?
Answer: How do we notice most of the planets in our solar system? We observe them because light hits them and bounces back for us to see. The further away they are the harder they are to see, you get to Saturn and you can't see anything with the naked eye. Further out you need binoculars or a telescope to see them. In fact Neptune was only discovered because we noticed Uranus wobbled a bit when it shouldn't. This wobble in fact lead us to think that there was a planet between Mercury and the Sun as Mercury also wobbled a bit funny. As it turned out there is no planet and this movement was explained by general relativity. Pluto isn't visible from Earth at all. Interesting fact, Pluto is so far away from the Sun that it hasn't completed a full orbit since its discovery in 1930.
Now look at this proposed planet, it's orbit is MASSIVE compared to Neptune's. It's going to spend most of its time in darkness and without many objects for us to observe nearby we can't easily infer its presence.

Question: How are sex scenes in Hollywood movies produced?
Answer: > The first thing to remember is that most scenes in most Hollywood movies are shot many, many times.  So the romantic and/or dramatic sexual events you see on screen might have taken half an afternoon to record.

 > Also remember that you're seeing a scene that is carefully lit.  There may be dozens of lights illuminating or contextualizing parts of the actors, the scenery, the architecture, etc.  Those lights are hot.  Being at the center of that much illumination also means that often when you look around you get blinded by the lights themselves.  It's a very weird sensation.

 > You're also surrounded by other people.  The camera operators, the people handling the sound recording equipment, the director, the director of cinematography, people standing by to walk on or having just walked off set, and who knows how many people just watching - producers, caterers, grips, best boys, carpenters, plumbers, assistants, etc.

 > And you are on a timer.  The director wants certain shots to take a certain amount of time.  The director has a sense for how long the scene needs to be after it is edited.  The director wants certain shots made at certain angles so they can be stitched together to make a cohesive scene.  So you may need to move to a certain place at a certain time, or deliver dialog with a certain cadence, etc.  It's not a "do what you want when the mood strikes" kind of experience.

 > Ok, the mechanics of the thing.  Most of the time, on most sets, the actors are not really naked from the waist down.  They wear "appliances" to simulate hints of pubic hair and/or genitalia.  Western audiences, especially American audiences, have real issues with seeing erect male genitalia, so unless the director is going for a "shock value moment", you won't see a penis.

 > Yes, I think most actors get aroused when they film sex scenes.  It's part of their job to connect emotionally with their characters and with the other characters in the scene.  It is hard to imagine being able to do that and not have a physical response.  There are well understood reasons that real off-screen sex between cast members on movie shoots is rampant.

 > Very, very, very rarely, and usually under extraordinary circumstances, scenes of real sex will make it into movies.  Often these scenes are rumored and not made "facts" to be consumed by the public for fear of drawing an "unrated" response from the MPAA (i.e. an "X" rating).

 > For example, it's widely believed that Richard Gere and Deborah Winger in "Officer and Gentlemen" have real sex - the story is that the camera was set up and turned on, the scene lit, and then the set was cleared, allowing the actors some privacy.

 > (Watch Gere uncomfortably discuss the scene here:  _URL_1_)

 > It's rarely done also because most actors won't consent to it.  Most actors draw a very strict line between what they do ("acting") and what happens on the other side of the Hollywood Hills ("porn"), and there's an invisible line that says once you do porn you're deeply devalued as an actor and maybe unemployable.

 > Every actor I've seen interviewed on the subject over the years is always a little embarrassed by the topic.  Most of what they do really is fake - they don't fly spaceships or perform surgery or solve crimes or make winning plays, etc.  But sex is something they've all done, so there's a standard against which their performance can be compared unlike all the "acting" they do otherwise, which is uncomfortable.

_URL_0_

Question: Why do our noses run when we are cold
Answer: You have small hairs inside your nose that are constantly doing the wave and pushing the snot back up your nose where it drains down your throat.  These are cilia.  When it's cold they say fuck this and quit working allowing gravity to do it's thing and make snot come out of your nose.  

Bonus fact: your body produces a cup of snot per day.  

_URL_0_

Question: Why is the standard format for a rock band a 4 piece drums/bass/guitar/vocal?  How and why did that happen?
Answer: That comes from jazz music, where that combination of instruments is known as [the rhythm section](_URL_0_). In early New Orleans and Dixieland jazz (~1910s), trumpet/clarinet/trombone would playing the melody and countermelodies, the guitar/piano/banjo would play chords, the tuba/bass (aka upright bass) would play the bassline, and the drum set would keep time. Jazz becomes very popular and 1935-1945 is known as the swing era or the "Big Band era." A [big band](_URL_1_) typically has 12 to 25 musicians. Eventually the big band went out of style and some famous jazz soloists began playing with MUCH smaller groups that only consisted of the soloist and the rhythm section. Some Miles Davis albums only have 5 musicians... trumpet, sax, piano, bass, and drums.

Country music follows this same trend. In the 1930s, Gene Autry and Roy Rogers are singing cowboy songs with a huge big band behind them. By the late 1940s, folks like Hank Williams are playing with much smaller bands... vocals, fiddle, rhythm guitar, slide guitar, bass, and drums. In the early 1950s, this style of country music evolves into rockabilly (Elvis, Johnny Cash, Jerry Lee Lewis, etc).

*Edited to fix spelling mistake.

Question: Why do women's menstrual cycles sync up after a while when living together?
Answer: They don't, it's a popular misinform. Am a woman, get periods and have had many female roommates over the years

Question: Why hot drinks can be consumed comfortably, yet if any is split on the skin it can cause pain.
Answer: ever got a blowjob? if not, put a finger in your mouth. your mouth is much warmer / hotter than your finger. so of course, your mouth wont suffer as much as your finger \(skin\) from touching a hot drink. it's the other way around too: try to put an ice cube in your mouth and keep it there for more than 5\-10 seconds \(in the same spot\). you prob cant. and then try to put your finger on it. you probably can keep it there til it melts.

Question: Why do so many countries view ex-president George W Bush as a war criminal?
Answer: Because he invaded a country the UN had not given permission to invade, based upon "intelligence" which wound up being entirely bogus. He then had hundreds of innocents "detained on suspicion" without trial, and many of them wound up being tortured, which is a war crime.

Question: What is a private or "profit" prison, and how do they work?
Answer: It's a prison that is run by an independent company.  And they charge the government for performing that service

Question: How is it possible to hang from something like an electric fence but only get electrocuted once you make contact with the ground?
Answer: When they touch the ground, it completes a circuit that allows the electrical current to go through their body.

Question: How do people who learned coding and programming think differently from people who have never done it?
Answer: I think the biggest lesson in thinking differently comes from debugging. It really humbles you.

A common scenario is going over the same piece of code that is creating a bug, but being absolutely certain that everything you wrote is correct. *There is no bug in my code. The computer is messed up somehow* is a thought I have over and over again even though I know it's crazy.

Then after staring for ages, you have this epiphany feeling when you realize where the problem was. When it's not a typo, it's usually due to a subtle assumption you made about how a function works that wasn't true, but totally changed everything.

Nowadays when I'm SURE I'm right about something, but someone disagrees with me (a moral or political opinion, for example), I'm very suspicious of that feeling of certainty. Instead, just as when I code, I learned to view my understanding of topics as provisional (especially when there are a lot of moving parts) and aware of the fact that there might be *unknown unknowns* - problems in my reasoning that I didn't think to check, maybe didn't even realize could exist.

Question: What's up with the CERN drama, What are they trying to do?
Answer: What CERN drama? I can find nothing significant about CERN in the news. Are you sure you didn't find a five year old fear-mongering website about how "oh the LHC will destroy the wooooorrrrlldddd!!!!1!"

Question: Pensacola, FL has white sand and clear water. Corpus Christi, TX has brown sand and murky brown water. How is there such a huge difference on the same body of water?
Answer: Other posters are right in that the continental shelf of the western portion of the GOM is mostly mud/clay, meaning that most of the rivers dump muddy silt into the gulf, including the Mississippi River. The Gulf of Mexico churns counter clockwise bringing the muddy water down along the Texas coast. If you think Corpus Christi is brown, go to Galveston. 

Fun fact: depending on the wind, if you go a couple of miles offshore even in Galveston, you'll hit crystal blue water.

Question: why does it take so long (years even) to get a citizenship in a foreign country?
Answer: Because those countries want to limit the number of people who get the benefits of full citizenship.  Making it take longer means taht fewer people will go through the process and the ones who do will really want it, or possibly be better in some way (more educated, have citizen family members, have a job)

Question: When a dog or a cat's owner changes clothes or wears something out of the ordinary, do they think the attire is part of your body or can they tell that clothes are just something that we put on top of our bodies?
Answer: She probably realised you were the same person, but your hat scared or confused her.

It's hard to know what animals actually think, but whatever they do think, they get used to it. Animals go by more than just visual appearance, of course: smell, gait, voice -- all these are important. Your puppy can probably already tell you apart from other people just by hearing your footsteps.

One of my two cats doesn't like bare skin much, and will, for example, refuse to sit on my lap if I am wearing shorts. The first time she ever say my wife get undressed, she looked on in horror, and then carefully reached out with her paw to touch my wife's skin.

Question: Why are bad words "bad"?
Answer: Detailed discussion of taboo topics like sex and dispelling of feces requires a specialized vocabulary. People are traditionally and unfortunately uncomfortable taboo topics (hence the "taboo"), so people used this specialized vocabulary to shock and surprise people in normal conversation. That's where it starts and from whence the "badness" comes.

People then take the "bad" words and transform them to something totally different, using them only for their "badness." "Fuck" or "fucking" can be a noun, verb, adjective, adverb, whatever you want it to be. It's kind of ridiculous.

An interesting question is why do you reserve "bad" words for when you drop a bowling ball on your toe rather than just say "raccoon!"? Because it's cathartic. You need something to let that energy out, and socially acceptable words don't meet the bill for that for some reason. Asking an ELI5 about that would be a more difficult question for people to answer.

Question: when a presidential candidate is "leading in the polls", how is this determined??
Answer: Polls work by a company or group calling around to a number of people and getting their opinion and how they plan on voting.

 If the poll talks to  1000 and 470 of them say they are going to vote for candidate A, and 530 people say that are going to vote for Candidate B, than the polls will say that Candidate B is leading the election.

Not everyone has to be asked to form an accurate picture of what people are going to do. But always remember that polls are not 100% accurate and have a margin or error (and that margin of error has a margin of error).

Question: The American healthcare system
Answer: It depends on your insurance coverage. I recently had surgery and the final bill was around 70k. With my insurance I only owed 5k out of pocket. The rest was covered. Also hospitals will allow you to make installments. Also, if you have a low income you can apply to have your bill lowered or even free.

Question: how this guy ran a marathon at age 95
Answer: Your body rises to the level of care and use you put into it. Eat correctly, exercise regularly your entire life, and avoid any injuries, infections, or genetic issues that could mess you up. After that, its up to luck, and this guy has gotten pretty lucky.

Question: How wireless charger work?
Answer: The charger has a coil of wire that creates a magnetic field. That magnetic field induces an electric current in a separate coil of wire inside the device being charged, which charges the battery in the device.

Question: Why are gingers hated?
Answer: It has something to do with the belief that gingers- those with red hair, pale skin, and freckles- have no souls.

Question: How are free withdrawal ATM machines profitable?
Answer: ATMs are actually less costly for banks than withdrawals from human tellers. Remember when all ATMs were free Pepperidge Farm Remembers. 

Edit
Prior to 1988, there was no surcharging of cardholders by ATM owners in the U.S. In 1988 Valley Bank of Nevada began surcharging "foreign cardholders" (meaning holders of ATM cards not issued by Valley Bank) for withdrawals at Valley Bank ATMs located in/near Las Vegas casinos.[29] Eventually, various regional ATM Networks, and ultimately the national networks, Plus and Cirrus, permitted ATM surcharging.

Before 1996, foreign ATM fees averaged $1.01 USD nationally, according to a 2001 report from the US-based State Public Interest Research Group.[30]

As banks and third parties realized the profit potential, they raised the fees.

Question: How can Scientology be considered a religion?
Answer: There are certain things that are unique to Scientology as a religion: the whole "pay as you go" thing (people spend ungodly, no pun intended, amounts of money in order to learn more about their religion), Scientology is the only religion that has gone to legal (and extralegal) lengths in order to protect its information, and (to my knowledge) the only religion that has had a 20+ year fight to be called so.

Question: Why do we always see sketches of popular courts trials on news sites?
Answer: Courtrooms don't always allow photography. Newspapers wanting an image will send an illustrator, instead.

Question: Why is Africa so screwed up?
Answer: [Found it!](_URL_0_)

By bkoatz:
Imagine Africa is a playground, where a bunch of different kids live all the time. You have one group by the swing set, another all the way on the other side by the basket ball courts, a third live on and around the stairs leading up to the school, and a fourth is by the bike racks. Periodically the bike rack kids throw those hard, small bouncy-balls at the stair kids, and sometimes the stair kids get hurt and fight back, but usually it all ends without too much pain and they keep to themselves.

One day, a group of kids who don't really look like the kids in the playground come inside. While most of the playground kids are wearing dirty tattered old sneakers, these kids have Glow-in-the dark heelies. While only the leaders of the bike rack kids have bikes, the new kids ALL have motorized scooters. And they have guns.

The first thing the new kids do is go into the camp of the swing set kids. They give them Air Heads Extremes, King Sized Twinkies, Coca Cola in Glass bottles - stuff the playground kids had never seen before. In return, they ask the swing set kids to capture the basketball court kids and bring them to the swing sets. Because the swing set kids haven't seen such wealth before, and keep wanting more of it, they happily do as the new kids say. The basketball court kids are all rounded up and taken outside of the playground, and never seen again. 

Now the new kids start taking swing set kids. Some swing set kids escape into the bikerack section. Most are taken away, or convinced to start taking away kids from the stairs to bring back. 

Then the new kids move on to the bike racks. Though the bike rack kids fight valiantly, the motorized scooters are too much for them, and they are defeated, and forced to start working for the new kids, along with the remaining swing set kids. They start building an even bigger jungle gym, a new candy store, everything the new kids want, they have to do. All the big swing set and bikerack kids are dead or tied to ropes so they can't escape.

And finally, the new kids get to the stairs. They take over, but can't kill or enslave all the stairs kids, because there are too many of them. They need some of the stairs kids to help them, if they are going to rule over the whole playground. So, they convince the stairs kids that everyone who sleeps on an odd numbered stair (eg. the first or third step), that they are better than those who live on even steps, or off the steps entirely. This becomes engrained in stair culture.

Then, one day, the new kids leave. With most of the playground's food and clothing along with them. They leave the guns though. There are still a lot of guns.

What they've left behind is a bike rack section mixed with bike rack kids and swing set kids, and all their usual leaders dead. A minority of the stairs kids have been the ruling class, and have been taught that they are better, more "new" than the other kids. Riots for power in this unruled and divided playground erupt all over the place, because resources are scarce or get into the hands of the few. They have forgotten how to live peacefully after many years of "new" rule.

The stairs kids are from Rwanda, the other three are West Africans, eg. Sierra Leone, Ghana, Congo. The new kids are European. That's why there are problems.

**EDIT**: Not actually an edit. But look down the page for more in depth information. I intended this post to just be a jumping off point, not the absolutely, all-inclusive, be-all-and-end-all description of the complex issue of why Africa is fucked up. The parent comment below this one describes an alternate theory based on georgraphic issues, moreso. Very interesting and definitely part of the truth. Check that out. 

And just for a more complete truth, imagine that the bike kids also sometimes took the basketball and stairs kids to build  their stuff, but the basketball and stairs kids retained some of their cultural identity, resulting in an even more tumultuous bike rack section after the new kids left (former slaves, swing set *and* bike kids...). It's all about geographical areas with conflicting tribal loyalties (and religious ones), and former leaders dead or corrupted, the order all messed up and then left to sort itself out with very little infrastructure, something called a "country" giving it borders, and guns.

Question: How can Sasha Baron Cohen (Bruno, Ali-G, Borat, etc.) meet and film with important groups like the FBI when he is only going to make a joke of it?
Answer: I heard that on the Ali G show, he would have someone else in a suit pretending they are going to do the interview and he just played one of the camera crew.  When filming started he took over the questions and caught the people off guard.

Question: Why can't I just hit the "Off" button on my computer rather than "Shut Down"
Answer: + Pressing shut down

Will terminate all system and user processes normally. Exiting processes have time to write logs and results in the primary memory. Some of it can be important, but 95% of the time you won't notice a difference, if you are a casual home user and not involved in servers or programing projects etc. 

It will also do what I describe in the next section

+ Pressing down the power button

Gives enough time for the mechanical parts of your computer (HDD mostly) to power down safely. 

+ Just pulling the plug

Will cause the mechanical parts of your PC to lose power while still working, possibly damaging them or wearing them down (if they power down at an active position.

Question: How did Anonymous CONTINUE to control @KuKluxKlanUSA for days?
Answer: "Twitter comes to the rescue of the KKK"  not good publicity.

Question: If our heart is behind our ribcage, why can we feel it when we put our hand on our chest?
Answer: You're not literally feeling your heart against your hand. But the heart is a very powerful muscle and its pumping action sends vibrations through the rib cage to the skin.

Question: Why can't you put modern parts into the body of an antique car? I know it's very different, but why isn't it somehow possible to create a vehicle with custom parts in the same way you would create a PC?
Answer: You can. Look at the hot rod world. Hot rods have a long history, especially in the USA but essentially its about taking an old car and equipping it with a modern drivetrain, suspension, brakes and so on. Rolled in to this is customising to make it look unique, or at least different.

Question: What causes the Reddit phenomenon of [deleted] and subsequent chain of deleted comments?
Answer: Typically when you see a ton of comments deleted it's because of a combination of user-removal and mod-removal. If two people get in an argument that either has nothing to do with the thread topic or becomes particularly nasty/abusive the mods will often delete the whole thing. Sometimes they'll just delete one party's comments if only that person was abusive or otherwise broke the rules of the sub. In other cases one user just decides they no longer want those comments as part of their "permanent record" and the other person decides that they don't need to leave their comments when the ones they were replying to are gone.

As for karma, all of the karma received while the comments were active remains on the person's profile. Obviously, once the comments are removed/deleted voting is no longer possible on them.

Question: How do modern aircraft "lose contact" with flight control?
Answer: "Lose contact" is a very vague phrase that could mean just about anything, but it means one thing for sure: lots of page views for advertising.

Air France AF447 "lost contact" - flight was out of radar coverage as is totally normal for that part if the world.  In between check-ins with air traffic, poor decisions allowed them to go from a minor instrument failure, to a full blown stall and then a crash in just 2 minutes.  At no point during the sequence did the pilots attempt to contact air traffic, they were too busy or too confused.   All the while, Air France did have a diagnostic system that reported maintenance issues and it also include location data.  This is ultimately what was used to find it, but remember this wasn't in real time, there is no CSI/Jack Bauer type reviewing maintenance logs that are 99.999999% of the time totally routine.

Do we have the technology to monitor the location of every plane in real time?  Yes

Is it actually installed and in use on planes? No

In the long run, yes, I expect this is what will be common, but in the short run, satellite communication is just too expensive and the need is so rare, that it's not something that will happen overnight.

Question: Why is it some people hiccup when eating spicy foods?
Answer: This happens to me too. I'm not entirely sure, but I do notice that if I make an effort to not inhale when swallowing I don't have a much of an issue. My guess is the tendency to inhale right as we are swallowing trying to cool off the food causes the problem.

Question: How are the marines 240 years old when America is only 239 years old?
Answer: The Revolutionary War started a year before the states formally declared independence.  Originally the colonists' view was that they were loyal subjects of the King of Britain (who had chartered the colonies), but Parliament had no special power over them because, among other things, they had no votes in Parliament.  Most of the Founding Fathers originally believed the British would back down and there would be a peaceful renegotiation of the colonies' role in the British Empire.  So the "Continental Congress" had an Army, Marines, and a Navy in 1775 even though it wouldn't declare independence for another year.

Question: (More) Questions from a grade 3/4 class!
Answer: These are excellent questions! Your class is awesome. :) I'll tackle a few:

#5. **Who was the first person on Earth?**

Humans have been evolving for millions of years. Deciding who was the "first" human on Earth is very difficult, because evolution is so slow. It's like deciding when exactly a caterpillar becomes a butterfly, there isn't really one exact moment when it does.

#15. **Will the human race die?**

We might. We're not treating our planet very nicely right now, so we might eventually make the air too hot or too dirty to breathe and live in. Even if we learn how to treat our planet nicely, we will still need to move somewhere else, because the Sun will start to die in about 5 billion years. It will expand into a really, really big star called a Red Giant, which will engulf and burn up half the planets, and then basically shrink until there's nothing left but a tiny little black ball. So we will need to move to a new planet in a few billion years anyway, if we want to keep living! (Don't let the grownups tell you that exploring space isn't important - it really is!)

#16. **Why is the moon gray?**

~~Dirt on the Moon is gray, and the Moon is all covered in dirt (it doesn't have any oceans or lakes like on Earth), so the Moon looks gray to us.~~ After [some interesting discussion](_URL_1_), I think a better answer for this would be: The Moon is made of many different kinds of rock, some are gray, some are black, some are brown, some are even kind of blueish or greenish. But because we see the Moon from so far away, all those colors kind of blur together, and look gray.

#17. **If you lose your tongue, can you still talk?**

~~If you lost your tongue, you could still say some sounds, like "ah" and "oh" and "mm," but you need your tongue to say other sounds, like "ee" and "sh" and "n" and other things. You couldn't say very many words anymore, but you could still talk.~~ I had [a great discussion with a phonetician](_URL_0_), and I'm going to edit my answer a bit: If you lost your tongue, you could still say some sounds, like "mm" and "b," and "ff," but you need your tongue to say other sounds, like "ee" and "sh" and "nn" and other things. You couldn't say very many words anymore, but you could still talk.

#20. **Are ghosts real?**

~~Ghosts are not real. :)~~ *Apparently*, this is up for debate.

#21. **Who thought of sign language?** 

~~People have been using signs for a long time - you use them every day without thinking about it, like waving, or pointing to something. People have been doing that since before we starting using spoken language, and we don't know who did it first, since it was such a long time ago.~~ My answer speaks to gestures, not sign *language*. There are several comments that explain this answer better than I did (e.g., [this one](_URL_4_) and [this one](_URL_2_)).

#23. **What was the first kind of bird on Earth?**

~~[Archaeopteryx](_URL_3_). It still looked a lot like a dinosaur (it had teeth!), but it had wings and feathers, too.~~ A few people have commented on this, and they are correct. My answer for this steps on the toes of my answer for #5, so I'm not sure how you should answer this question. Maybe like a combination of my answers for #5 and #23?

#26. **Why are there clouds?**

Air has very tiny amounts of water in it, so tiny you can't even see them! When these little bits of water collect together, and get really cold, a cloud forms. When a cloud has too much water in it, some of that water can fall down to the ground, and make rain! That's why rain clouds are darker, there's more water in them.

#30. **Why do we need blood?**

Blood takes oxygen and vitamins and nutrients to all parts of our body, like our toes, our brain, our stomachs, everything. If you lose too much blood, you can get really tired, and maybe even die, because your brain and body isn't getting the energy and vitamins that it needs.

**Edit:** Reformatted a bit. Added the questions in my answer, for easier reading.

**Edit 2:** Reworded my answer to #15 to make the Sun sound less like a monster and more like a star.

**Edit 3:** Commented on a few of my answers.

**Edit 4:** Edited my Moon and tongue answer.

Question: How did Hitler and the Nazi leaders justify the alliance with Japan when the Nazi party was so against non-Arian people?
Answer: The Japanese were declared "honorary Aryans" or "Master Race of the Orient" (although it was pretty obvious that if Germany won, Hitler would have no qualms invading Japanese held territory). In fact, Hitler held the Japanese and Chinese in high regard because of their long history and achievements.

Question: Do All the Planets in our Solar System Spin and/or Orbit in the Same Direction? Why?
Answer: All planets in our solar system orbit in the same direction (counter clockwise if you look at it from the earth's northpole). This is becuase the planets (and sun) formed from one big disk of dust and debris that was spinning counter clockwise. Once the matter in the cloud clumped up to form planets and moons, the planets all kept going in the same direction. It is also the direction that the sun spins in.

Not all planets spin in the same direction. Venus and Uranus spin in a clockwise fashion, whereas the other 6 planets spin counter clockwise. Venus and Uranus probably do this because they were hit at very specific angles by big asteroids that spun them around. 


Another special thing about Uranus is that the tilt of the planet is 98 degrees (earth's tilt is about 23 degrees. This means that Uranus is actually laying on it's side compared to all the other planets.

Question: If keeping your heart rate up is good for you during exercise, is the same true of watching scary movies, playing video games, or other passive heart rate boosters?
Answer: Heart rate increases due to exercise are healthier than heart rate increases due to terror (eg. watching a scary movie). Terror-based heart rate increases are accompanied by a spike in adrenaline, which can be damaging to your heart over time.

Question: What causes loose skin on some people after losing weight?
Answer: when you get fat, your skin stretches, there's almost no limit on how much the skin can stretch and you will get stretch marks if it stretches too fast.  when you lose fat, it's hard for your skin to unstretch.  so they are left with loose skin.  of course the more weight they lose the more significant an issue this will be.

Question: If people are constantly going to film school and learning how to properly make films, why are so many bad directors, editors, cinematographers, writers, etc. still getting work? Why are they not fired and replaced by someone who can do the job better?
Answer: Thats kind of like thinking a pro athlete is shitty so they should be replaced.

Sure they aren't doing that well, and they are struggling, but the playing field is at such an absurdly high level you can't say the are 'bad'. Especially if you want to talk about the people who come out of film school.

go watch "The Room", thats a movie that was self funded and produced with little to no oversight/screening, and then rewatch the other movies you think are bad. They aren't bad movies, for the most part, they just aren't perfect.

Question: how a hardware store worker is affecting a whole country's economy
Answer: He posts the true dollar to bolivar exchange rate.  The Venezuelan government insists n setting the rate rather than permitting it to fluctuate based on demand.

Since the people are now armed with better information, they are spending their bolivars with that information in mind.

The article explains this in more depth.  Perhaps the real ELI5 answer would be "Read the entire article instead of just the headline.  Come back with specific questions."

Question: when baking, why can you not simply 2x, 3x, etc the recipe to increase the batch?
Answer: Baking is a very specific form of cooking that requires two things; humidity and temperature. When you're making your dough, you need it to raise and set. The size of your rolled/patted dough alters how it raises and sets. 

If you multiply a baking recipe, it could possibly affect the size of your rolled/patted dough, which affects the time, temperature, and humidity that it needs to raise and set.

Question: Why do my veins look blue when my blood is red?
Answer: Oxygenated blood is the bright red you are familiar with, blood without oxygen is a darker red. Due to the way that light is absorbed by the skin and muscle between your veins and the surface, the dark red blood appears blue.

Edit: any of the other answers stating that human blood is blue without oxygen are just incorrect.

This is also one of those times that the search function should have been used, here is one result of search 'blood blue':

_URL_0_

Googling 'why is my blood blue' yields these top results in case you want to read them:

_URL_1_

_URL_3_

_URL_2_

Question: What does U2 get out of releasing it's new album for free on iTunes?
Answer: A new generation of people listening to their music.  Said people may consider buying their other albums which are not free.

Question: How does an insect's mind function relative to our own in terms of "thoughts," motivation, and instinct?
Answer: As far as brain development is concerned, humans have a shared heritage with other mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians and even fish. There are structural similarities between the human brain and the brains of these species, and through various states of altered consciousness we can make an educated guess about the consciousness of these species. For example, the basal ganglia plays an important role when humans dream, and a reptile's brain by comparison consists (mostly) of a structure similar to the basal ganglia, so we can make an educated guess about reptilian consciousness. Obviously the human basal ganglia has evolved some unique features, but the "driven" and "self-absorbed" sense of awareness experienced by humans when dreaming is likely similar to reptilian consciousness overall.

Insects however do not have a common heritage with humans, at least not as far as brain development is concerned. Insects evolved from crustaceans, which in turn evolved from annelid worms (by comparison, fish evolved from chaetognatha worms). We can look at the amount of neurons contained in the insect brain, but we haven't really a good understanding or reference for the structures of the insect brain. As such, we can't really make educated guesses about insect consciousness, only speculation.

Question: How do our toes, such a small part of our bodies, withstand our body weight with full stability without breaking?
Answer: They've evolved to be strong enough to. Bones are pretty darn strong compared to their size/weight. That, along with your muscles helping support them, can generally withstand a good bit of weight, assuming you're relatively healthy. 

And if you trained those muscles, you could do even more. Ballet dancers can jump around on their tippy toes, although their feet do tend to be kind of a mess as a result.

Question: The news is confusing me, how does a bill create jobs?
Answer: I know of three ways, but there are possibly others too. For one, government can introduce tax deductions and other relieving measures so an employer has more money left with which he can employ more people. Other form of job creation through government is public infrastructure spending where they announce/push lets say road building and lots of companies and people through them get to work. Third measure is through banking which can be any of various measures (varies from country to country - if there is central banking or not etc...), but most common are through making lending to companies cheaper, so they can borrow money for less and create new opportunities, jobs, expand their business...

Question: Why do we call bigotry towards homosexuals homophobia?
Answer: Homophobia is not a recognized clinical disorder the same way acrophobia is. It's first recorded use was in a NY Times article in the 80's.
 
The wiki page on homophobia has a section mentioning the same semantic criticism that you do, with LGBT scholars suggesting terms such as homonegativity or sexual prejudice to replace the pseudo-scientific "phobia" suffix. 

Personally, I believe homophobia is a dated term that ties back to a time when it was believed that homosexuality and other non-heteronormative behavior was a mental disorder.

Question: How can the police or the fire departement tell what the cause of a fire was? For example by arson, by accident or just by nature itself?
Answer: Yer not alone in askin', and kind strangers have explained:

1. [ELI5: How do technicians determine the cause of a fire? Eg. to a cigarette stub when everything is burned out. ](_URL_1_) ^(_ > 100 comments_)
1. [ELI5: How do people determine how fires start? Wouldn't all the evidence of the cause of the fire be destroyed in the fire? ](_URL_0_) ^(_18 comments_)
1. [ELI5: How do fire detectives discover the cause of a fire when everything is burnt and destroyed ](_URL_2_) ^(_38 comments_)
1. [ELI5: How can investigators tell if a fire was caused by arson? ](_URL_4_) ^(_2 comments_)
1. [ELI5: How can fire inspectors determine the cause of a fire from the rubble? ](_URL_6_) ^(_18 comments_)
1. [ELI5: How the heck do authorities determine who started a massive fire in the middle of the woods somewhere? ](_URL_3_) ^(_ > 100 comments_)
1. [ELI5: How do fire investigators find someone who started a forest fire? ](_URL_5_) ^(_ > 100 comments_)

Question: Death Tax
Answer: The "death tax" (aka estate tax) doesn't actually kick in unless your grandmother's estate is worth more than $5.25 million.  Your father doesn't know what he's talking about.

Question: In empty space, without a reference point, how would traveling at the speed of light work? It seems like one's speed would be totally indeterminate and therefore would be able to travel at the speed of light.
Answer: You can accelerate forever. The universe conspires to keep you below the speed of light, however. But it does it in a strange way. You, on your ship, would see time pass as normal. But you would experience lorentz contraction. As you continue to accelerate, distances along the axis of your travel would shrink. Not as in "you're moving forward so there's less distance between you and your destination" but literally if you put some "start line" in space, and a finish line at your target, they're *closer together* the faster you hit the start line, from your perspective.

On the other hand, any observer would never see you reach the speed of light, rather they would see you traveling through time more slowly as you move at sublight speed. You would see time passing more slowly for them in turn. So neither of you see yourself as breaking light speed. To you, you just traveled a shorter distance that didn't require you to exceed the speed of light. To them, you traveled slower than the speed of light, but experienced less time than they did, so you didn't age as much as you would have sitting still. Both adding up to 'you got to your destination younger than we'd expect without relativistic effects'

In all cases, were you to measure light traveling relative to you, it would appear to be passing you at the speed of light. You cannot catch up to it.

Question: Why do scam websites that claim to sell "a revolutionary product" all look the same?
Answer: Because they work. Scam artists and lazy people see an idea that brings money for little work, and they emulate that idea. Why fix something that isnt broken, right? Similar idea to why there are a million different versions of Minecraft and Bejewelled. The people peddling these things aren't innovators. They don't desire to expand on previous formulas and improve the world. They just want quick cash, and the easiest way to do that is to do the exact same thing other people have done.

Question: The difference between a president, a prime minister, and other types of national leaders
Answer: There are 2 types of governments, at least among large developed nations like the UK, US, Canada, etc.  A parliamentary or a Presidential system. Both have the same 3 basic branches of government.  The judicial, executive and legislative.  The differences lie with the executive.

In parliamentary system, the parliament is made up of elected representatives.  These representatives belong to political parties.  The party who has the highest percentage of seats is considered to be the one in charge.

Each political party has a leader (chosen by the party in question).  The party who has the most seats gets to name it's leader the Prime Minister.  The Prime Minister then chooses a Cabinet (from the other elected representatives).  Note that this can get complex.  In a system with more then 2 parties, there can be coalitions formed resulting in the Prime Minister being from a party that did not necessarily have the most representatives elected.  Really it's whoever can get the most votes for himself from among the elected representatives. 


The important distinction is that the people do NOT elect the Prime Minister directly, but rather the group of elected representatives elect one of themselves to be the Prime Minister.

So, each various government department is run by civil servants.  These high ranking civil servants report to the Minister in charge of that department.  These Ministers make up a group called the Cabinet.  They are selected from amongst the elected representatives by the Prime Minister.

So the Minister of Defence is just another elected representatives who was chosen for that role after the election. 

Formally, the Prime Minister is the Minister who is in charge of the other Ministers (hence the name). All of the ministers are ordinary members of parliament, but not all members of parliament are ministers.  Ministers can change at the will of the Prime Minister without any public input (no election required).

The Prime Minister can also change without a general election, although the public would be upset if it went on for long.  If the existing Prime Minister steps down, and the party in charge elects a new leader, then BOOM a new Prime Minister.  Normally the act of forcing the removal of a Prime Minister will trigger a new election.

So to summarize, the legislative branch is elected directly by the people.  The Prime Minister is chosen from among the elected representatives. Normally the Prime Minister is the leader of the most powerful party.  The Prime Minister selects a Cabinet from the other elected representatives and together they form the executive branch. 

This basic system of government is normally used in the nations that had significant british influence.  

In the US, the Executive branch is elected directly and called a president.  The President is NOT a member of the legislative branch.  The Cabinet is made up of people who were NOT elected by the people and therefore they must go through a confirmation process.

Question: If women have a right to their own bodies, why is abortion legal, but prostitution illegal?
Answer: The straightforward answer to the legal question---at least in the U.S.---is that the government has a lot more power to regulate commercial activities done for entertainment than it has to regulate private medical decisions.  

The slightly less straightforward answer has to do with how courts look at the interests of the individual and of the state in these circumstances. At least when discussing the first trimester, the Supreme Court has said that the state doesn't really have an interest that overcomes the woman's control over her body, because of issues like privacy and the ambiguities of defining the start of life as a philosophical matter (rather than as a question of viability).  This is not the case with prostitution, where the states interests are the same all the time, and where courts have said these interests (in things like preventing associated crimes, avoiding exploitation of vulnerable populations, etc...) can survive a challenge. 

Philosophically, of course, people debate this all the time. Plenty of people think both should be illegal. And many people believe both should be legal, or at the least that laws against prostitution should be restructured to punish those that use it to harm/dominate rather than those forced into or choosing that life. And, of course some people are divided.  But that philosophical debate is only loosely related to why the law is presently the way it is.

Question: Why, when looking at the reflection of my monitor in a glass of orange juice, do I see rainbows across the reflection?
Answer: Because your glass is curved. So it's going to curve the light passing through it and reflecting off of it ever so slightly. 

Bending light in such a manner produces a rainbow effect because the medium does not bend all the frequencies of light the by same amount.

Question: how do people (Tom Petty Gaye family) win copyright battles over songs with loosely similar melodies? Haven't all the basic pop melodies been used a thousand times already?
Answer: Songs can be stylistically similar in a number of different ways, and it's when these add up that infringement becomes a problem. In other words, yes, it is inevitable that occasionally two songs will share a similar melody here and there. However, songs consist of more than just melodies:

- Lyrical content

- Beat/rhythm

- Chord sequence

- Choice of instrumentation/composition

- Structure

- Other stylistic decisions

To name but a few. If two songs are similar in just one of these respects, then there probably isn't a problem. For example, most songs in the house music genre adopt a broadly similar structure (intro, build, drop, breakdown, drop, outro). No-one is going to argue that this is plagiarism; it's just a stylistic feature of the genre. However, if I write a song that has similar lyrical content, chords and melodies to an existing track then suddenly it's going to raise some eyebrows.

This was the crux of the Blurred Lines case. The main similarities are in the choice of instrumentation (organ bass), the rhythm (same speed with loose percussion), and other stylistic decisions (whooping/party noises in the background). Had Blurred Lines just used one of these elements, there probably wouldn't have been a case.

Question: In movies, they need to keep having a phone connection for like 30secs in order to track someones location. Why?
Answer: Excuse my language, but the movies are total bullshit in this case. It's just a plot device.

Whenever you place a call, at least within North America, there are two Caller Identity records that automatically get tagged on the call. These tags are sent as part of the protocol to setup the call (before the call is even connected).

The first is the regular Caller ID number (and potentially name) the receiving party sees on their Caller ID display when their phone rings. For VoIP calls and landline calls placed within Canada specifically, the name of the calling party may also be tagged on to the call. For most other calls (particularly in the US), only the number is tagged and a name (if displayed) is retrieved from a national look-up database.

Anyway, to get the point, this type of Caller ID described in the above paragraph can be hidden or spoofed. By this I mean, you can tell your telephone company to hide the number from the receiving party and -- if you're a VoIP or business customer -- you can tell the telephone company what outbound telephone number should be tagged onto the call for Caller ID.

There is, however, an entirely different Caller Identity system used internally by your telephone company and other trusted parties to identify callers. This system is often referred to as ANI (Automatic Number Identification). 

This reflects the actual subscriber number assigned to the physical line from which you are calling. This identity tag cannot be changed or hidden, it's always present on calls made through the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN). It's the system used, for example, to identify you for billing purposes, for 911 Emergency Services, internal call tracing etc. 

The only time you can really 'spoof' ANI is when you dial through a proxy. By this I mean, you call (or hack) into another telephone system and you make a call through said system. Alternatively, you call through a VoIP (internet based) service provider. The ANI may then be traced back to that telephone system or VoIP service rather than the line you're actually calling from. 

In this case the telephone company may try to look up records for calls dialing into the compromised telephone system and then do an ANI trace on that or alternatively ask the VoIP provider to give up their IP logs. Even so, this does not require the call to be connected for any length of time, and they can look back on that data for as long as they want just so long as they don't erase it.

Now cell phones are a little different, but again, the'res no requirement for the call to be connected for any number of seconds. Right off the bat, whatever cell network the phone is connected to will maintain a record of the cell tower the phone is currently connected to as well as a history of previous cell tower locations the phone was connected to. It is trivially simple for the mobile network operator to determine which cell tower the phone was connected to when the call was made (and even when no call was being made). Cell towers have a relatively small range (particularly in urban areas), so you can narrow down the location pretty well without even getting into GPS stuff.

Then of course, there is GPS location. It is possible, with many phones, for the mobile network operator to poll the GPS location of the phone (for emergency purposes) and certainly it's the case that GPS information can be transmitted when you call emergency services.

TL;DR: Total bullshit, there is no need for the call to be connected for X number of seconds. Regardless of whether it's a landline or cell phone, the key information that can be used to trace the call (at least to a general location) is instantly available even before the call is connected. There are some cases where the true location of the caller can be obscured, but having the call connected for X number of seconds really does nothing to make it easier to locate the caller.

Question: Why are warm showers very sedative and cold showers very stimulating?
Answer: The heat from a hot shower helps tightened or inflamed muscles (from stress or injury) relax and also promotes better blood flow and circulation. This, naturally, has a relaxing affect on the body.

Cold water can stimulate oxygen intake via the physical shock from the temperature and can also increase heart rate, circulating blood flow. Cold water might also help relieve some muscle soreness.

Question: War on Terror
Answer: Well, you can learn a lot here:

_URL_0_

The term was first used by the Reagan Administration in the 1980s.

It's really more of a phrase that politicians use to get applause and to refer to the general military operations against terrorist organizations and other groups vaguely like them, than an actual war.

It really kind of peaked with the 9/11 attack and the subsequent war in Afghanistan and later sort of Iraq.

The way to end it is difficult. Ultimately I think we won't ever win or lose the war, because there's no definite end goal like there is with regular wars like WWII (get the Nazi army to surrender). 

I think after a while, the general idea that we are at war with terror will just kind of go out of popular thinking.

Obama's role in the war on terror is interesting and still being worked out. He has increased drone strikes significantly more than the Bush administration, and has even used them to assassinate American citizens in Yemen without a trial (Anwar al-Awlaki). He also sent a 2 year surge of troops into Afghanistan beginning in 2010.

Question: why some game updates introduce more bugs
Answer: Think of computer code like a spider web - if you tug on one end of the web, the entire web moves slightly because it's all connected. Now, ideally, code should be modular, such that if you change this one piece over here, that other piece over there is completely unaffected. However, in the real world, it's quite common for code (especially complex code) to get more interconnected than it really should be, to the point where if you make a change to this module over here, that other module over there, which should have *nothing* to do with your change, suddenly breaks or changes its behaviour in a subtle way. It's like trying to take scissors to a spider web and cut out just one part of it without causing the rest of the web to move - it's very, very delicate work.

Question: how can identical twins have distinctly different voices?
Answer: Identical twins are only genetically identical.

Voice is affected by a multitude of things; for example, your environment, have you smoked? Your diet, do you weight exactly the same amount and are you the same height? How and when you learnt to speak, were you presented with exactly the same learning materials? Your ability, does one of you have Dyslexia, or something that would affect how you process language? Is one bi-lingual?

You see? Many things can affect the voice, not just genetics :)

Question: When we get issued plates for our IOTV vests in the army, we get told not to drop the plates or they might shatter. How can these plates that are rated for a 7.62x54mm bullet stop said bullet if they can't even hold up when they get dropped?
Answer: It's not about being so hard as to stop the bullet. It's about reducing the amount of energy the bullet is carrying. Transferring that energy into the ceramic and distributing it throughout lessens the energy. As stated above cars are made to crumple at the hood forward. That way the energy of the impact is spread into the front of the vehicle instead of in your body. It's like a stuntman coming off a high jump. If he lands directly on his feet he will snap his legs. If he rolls he distributes the energy and doesn't get injured.

Question: Why do we forget dreams so fast?
Answer: They're not stored in long term memory.  The reason for this is probably because there's no advantage to remembering them and remembering them would clog your memory up with crap.

Question: How does 'dual-citizenship' work if one of the countries concerned doesn't have the provision of 'dual-citizenship'?
Answer: It doesn't. If you are a citizen of a country that doesn't allow you to hold multiple citizenships, when push comes to shove you may have to decide to give one of them up. Or you may lose your original citizenship automatically as soon as you acquire your new one.

But it's not like, for example, the U.S. government won't let an Austrian citizen apply for U.S. citizenship because Austria doesn't allow them.

Question: Why don't blood vessels sort of kink when we fold our knees/elbows?
Answer: 1. The outside of each blood vessel is made of a material that has the right blend of firmness and flexibility.

2. Most blood vessels are surrounded by soft tissue that will yield first, or hard things (like bones) that will protect them from some of the pressure.

3. The interior of blood vessels is pressurized by the action of the heart.

Question: How do cameras work exactly?
Answer: Assuming you are referring to digital cameras (not the old-fashioned film cameras):  

Light from the subject (like a puppy) is focused onto a sensor chip using a lens, or more than one lens. There are different kinds of sensors, but the basic idea behind all of them are similar. They contain an array of sensor "elements" laid out in a rectangular grid pattern. When light hits a sensor element, it excites electrons in the element, raising them to a higher energy level. (These sensor elements are basically special-purpose transistors.)  The more light that hits an element, the more electrons that get excited. This excitation can be sensed as a voltage by the rest of the element and read out to a processor on the same chip (or another chip). Alternatively, the excited electrons are collected and sent off the sensor array to a circuit that "counts" how much charge has been gathered by each element. 

That would only get you a black and white image, though. In order to get color images, there are also a few techniques. The most common is to make the light pass through a [filter that has red, green and blue areas before it gets to the sensor elements](_URL_0_). So each of the sensor elements only "sees" light of one color. Another method is to stack 3 sensor elements on top of each other along with color filters. A third way is to use a prism to split the light from the image in to its different colors and use 3 separate sets of sensors to detect each of the primary colors. The data from all 3 sets of sensors is then combined by another chip.  

You now have essentially converted the brightness/color of the incoming light into a set of numbers that represents the image. That image file is stored on a memory chip in the camera. It can then be sent out to a device connected to the camera in "RAW" format, or it can first be converted to some other format such as JPEG, with or without being compressed first (to make the file size smaller).  

Now that you have the image represented as a set of colors/brightnesses (in the form of a bunch of numbers), you can reverse the process. You send the image file to a screen of some sort and have it display those colors/brightnesses in a rectangular pattern with the same width/height ratio as the original. It doesn't matter how big the screen is, as long as that "aspect ratio" is correct. You can then look at the screen, and you see the light pattern that was originally focused onto that image sensor chip. It's a puppy!

Question: What is a Banana Republic? How is it related to Bananas?
Answer: Banana republic can either be:

A fake republic, like the Nicaraguan republic in the late twentieth century. In this sense, banana is a connection to a centralized republic, like, int he hands of the few, in the case of Nicaragua, the hands of the banana business family. See the paradox?

Or you can be referring to the nation and not to the system. In this case, we can use the southern central American countries, or the northern south American countries to explain. Historically, the government of these countries was controlled by the owners of the banana farms, these families were friends with the United States. So it was like "we give you bananas, and you give us other stuff so we can control the masses". And there you have it, a fake republic, dominated by the banana families. And, of course, there were several other banana companies that wanted to be the most powerful ones, but let's not complicate it. 

Here is an awesome video to explain it better and more organized: _URL_0_

Question: What's stopping the Russians from crushing Ukraine like it did Hungary in 56'?
Answer: You have to look at the bigger picture on this one. Putin is concerned with the eastern expansion of NATO and the US' rocket shield around Russia's soft underbelly. 
When the US announced in 2008 that they wanted to invite Ukraine to Nato, Lawrov said: "Njet means njet". 

So it's important to analyse the conflict in order to understand Russia's goals here. They don't want to occupy all of Ukraine. They simply want a buffer between them and the advancing Nato which is at least neutral. I think this is the side of the story which isn't told by the western media. Russia is pursuing the interests of a super power in it's back yard. Nothing more and nothing less. The US don't tolerate left-wing democracies in their back yard either. 
I think this whole conflict has nothing to do with Putin wanting to conquer all of Europe. He isn't the kind of stalinistic emperor from the 50s which we are told. 
The rebels have Russian roots and don't like an anti-Russian gouvernement in Kiew. It's curious how we apply very dubious standards when we decide whether a group are "freedom fighters" or "terrorists".

As a hitory/politics student, I'm currently taking a course on the analysis of the conflict with a very good professor. One thing which needs to be analysed is the sniper incident which led to the overthrow, one day after Janukowitsch already signed his retreat and agreed to establish new elections. One day later, we are having this very aggressive pro-western interim gouvernement in charge, so there is reason to suspect that this was another US-backed overthrow. If this turns out to be true, then Crimea was just the 2nd move on the chessboard. We need to start with the overthrow, not the annexion.

Don't get me wrong, I'm not a Putin-lover. There is much to criticize about Russia. But upon analysing this conflict on a higer niveau, you inevitably come to similar conclusions.
If you think: "Well, the US might be a bit involved but the overthrow was basically freedom-loving Ukrainians" then you should check out Zbigniew Brzezinski or PNAC. 
greetings

Question: How do tattoos stay in our skin even though we shed and peel away skin after sunburns?
Answer: Because we only shed and peel the upper layer of skin. The tattoo is a few layers deeper in and fairly well protected from peeling and shedding and loss of skin.

Question: Why is Alcohol aged in Barrels?
Answer: As far as Bourbon... The whiskey expands and contracts into the wood as it ages and with seasonal changes. This mellows the whiskey and imparts the oak flavor. The longer it ages the more mellow the flavor. This process creates longer molecular chains which aid in a better flavor. I drank some 23 year old bourbon yesterday... that was so incredibly smooth as opposed to a 5 year whiskey that is very rough.

Question: How is it that we've managed to make so many diverse variations of dogs, and would we be able to do this with any other animal on the same scale?
Answer: Dogs (and closely related animals like wolves) have a really weird and seemingly unique thing called a ["Slippery genome."](_URL_0_) We haven't discovered any other animals that have this yet, but it really helps in dog breeding.

Dogs basically have backup genes that allow them to survive mutation much better than most animals. For example, if we bred lots of dogs with stubby legs together, we can produce some relatively healthy, stubby legged dogs. However, if we breed lots of stubby legged cats together, they get real unhealthy real fast. We need to breed in normal cats or else there are just too many birth defects and the breed becomes a dead end. But then the cats lose the stubby legs we want.

We can come up with plenty of guesses as to why dogs have this "slippery genome" and other animals don't, but we haven't found any solid answers yet.

Question: How cats survive falls
Answer: When I was 5 our cat jumped off of our apartment terrace. It was explained to me that cats have 9 lives and when they fall from great distances they land on their feet, but lose a life.    
We lived on 16th floor. 
My parents said that each floor it past cost it a life, so by the time it reached the 7th floor it had used up all its 9 lives which is why it was splattered on the pavement below.

Question: What does the parental advisory label do and does it prevent a child from buying CDs with that logo?
Answer: The advisory label is voluntary. There is no law or regulation that requires a retailer to not sell to a minor. It was created as a response to gangster rap from the 90s entering the mainstream. 

In contemporary times, I'm sure high school kids know more bad words than I do. And they probably know how to download whatever they want from sites I've never heard of. 

_URL_0_

Question: Why do hear an echo like sound when we place a glass on our ear even though the room is quiet ?
Answer: Seashell resonance.

The rushing sound that one hears is in fact the noise of the surrounding environment, resonating within the cavity of the shell. The same effect can be produced with any resonant cavity, such as an empty cup or even by simply cupping one's hand over one's ear. The similarity of the noise produced by the resonator to that of the oceans is due to the resemblance between ocean movements and airflow.
The resonator is simply attenuating some frequencies of the ambient noise in the environment, including air flowing within the resonator and sound originating within the human body itself, more than others.
The human ear picks up sounds made by the human body as well, including the sounds of blood flowing and muscles acting. These sounds are normally discarded by the brain; however, they become more obvious when louder external sounds are filtered out. This occlusion effect occurs with seashells, cups, or hands held over one's ears, and also with circumaural headphones, whose cups form a seal around the ear, raising the acoustic impedance to external sounds.[

Question: Why do moths and other bugs like to crowd around light sources so much?
Answer: We think that moths use the moon/Sun for navigation.  If you stand outside so that the moon is to your left, and walk keeping the moon to your left, you can keep a general heading.

Moths developed this ability long, long before ANYTHING at night shined brightly other than the moon.  So it gets confused when it sees a light.

If you stand outside and keep a street light to your left, and then walk keeping it to your left, what happens is that you walk in circles around the light!  That trick only works with the moon because it doesn't move as you walk around.  

PLUS, bright light makes a moth think it's daytime, and daytime for a moth is a time to sit still and hide.

So the end result is that the moth thinks he's flying straight, but instead spirals around the light source.  Once he gets close to it, he thinks it's daytime and tends to settle down until it's dark again.  Hence moths circling lights and sticking around them for no good reason.

Question: Why don't copyright laws affect China?
Answer: US copyright laws only really apply in the US.

International copyright laws apply worldwide, but only to the extent to which countries wish to enforce them within their borders.  China isn't making it a priority, and there isn't much the rest of the world can do to force them.

Question: why does my Apple IPhone require that I have at least 4.5 GB of storage available in order to update?
Answer: The files you download in the update must be decompressed before being permanently installed.  A 500 MB download could easily decompress into a couple of gigabytes or more.

Question: Why is there such a small amount of steam games for mac?
Answer: It takes effort to build the game for the mac.  Not as much effort as building it from scratch, but it does take a significant investment.  It can also be different enough that you may want a specific team just for the mac work.  For many companies that extra effort isn't worth the cost given the relatively small amount of mac gamers.  Mac gamers are also often willing to either buy a gaming pc on top of their mac, or run windows on their mac via bootcamp.  As such there is even less people who won't buy your game unless it has a mac version.

Question: How does the 'auto' function on car lights work?
Answer: A simple photosensitive detector can measure light levels. It's about outside ambient light, not light from oncoming cars. Even if light from oncoming cars hits the sensor, it is overall much less bright than full sunlight. Moreover, there can be multiple light sensors placed in different points around the car, and their signal can be averaged out, so one sensor being flooded with strong light will not trick the car's system into thinking it's suddenly sunlight. Still, sunlight is many times stronger than headlights. If you don't believe this, just turn on your headlights in the middle of a sunny day. Do you see any extra illumination on the surfaces in front of the car? You won't, because sunlight is so strong that the measly additional light from those headlights counts for nothing next to it.

Indeed, the brightness difference between sunlight and most conventional manmade light sources is enormous. You just can't tell because your eyes have a very high dynamic range, and because it's habitual. For instance, you might think that turning on all the lights inside your house at night makes it as bright as during the day, but in fact the light level of indoor lighting is much darker than sunlight. If you try it with a camera with fixed exposure, adjusted for sunlight, when you take it into indoor lighting the picture will probably look pitch black.

As for the windscreen wipers, there are many ways to do it, but typically there's an optical module behind the windscreen (ex. in the central rearview mirror). When the windscreen gets wet, it reflects light differently, and the sensor detects this. To work, this sensor also needs to emit light (that would get reflected by the windscreen), and this is infrared light so that your eyes don't see it.

Question: Why does everyone hate flash so much? Why is everyone trying to get it blocked everywhere?
Answer: Flash is a system where web designers can do things on a webpage that is not usually possible through html.  It can play video, connect to servers, read and write to the operating system files, and more.

Unfortunately, to achieve all of these features, flash had to give its programs increased access to the operating system.  Flash tried to protect the operating system by creating a 'sandbox' - forced limitations of how the flash programs can use the operating system, but Flash has failed to keep its programs in the sandbox in many, many cases.

So now a programmer could use one of these holes in the sandbox to install viruses, steal data, control the web browser, and other bad activities.  Flash tries to block the holes, but new ones keep popping up.  The public has lost trust in Flash, and now there are efforts to remove it completely from the web to better protect all of us users.

Additionally, advertisers were able to use Flash to to make the web annoying.  Advertisements would make noise, flash, play video, and talk.  Compared to the pages, the flash advertisements were large and could slow down the computer.  So now you are trying to read the news, and right in the middle of the article are 3 monkeys trying to dodge your mouse cursor, a car driving through a box, and bags of money enticing you to click on one. So in addition to the security issues, Flash became synonymous with advertising, attracting even more hatred.

Question: How do I use a semicolon?
Answer: Basically you use them to replace transitional phrases like: "such as," "and so," "hence," or "that is to say."

Question: Where did the stereotypical image of the Halloween witch come from?
Answer: The idea of witches riding brooms is hundreds of years old.  Otherwise, witches in history were depicted as regular looking women (or realistically ugly women, not mnosters).

The green skin, long pointy nose, and regular witches hat come from ~~Dorothy~~ Margaret Hamilton as the Wicked Witch of the West in The Wizard of Oz (1939).  

Prior to that film, the Wicked Witch of the West was short, squat, one-eyed and had a big bulbous nose and a either an extremely tall pointy cap covered in decorations (the book's illustrations) or a floppy Papa Smurf stocking cap (The Wonderful Wizard of Oz (1910)).

Question: Why aren't can't people remember distinct memories from their childhood?
Answer: Human memory is actually a very flawed system.

We have forget lots of things - most of our sensory input is almost immediately dumped and we retain a very small fraction of what we perceive.
Also, memory is highly fluid.  The current understanding of memory is that memories are re-experienced and recreated every time we recall them.  Memories, even those in which we are very confident, change over time and drift farther and farther away from what actually happened.

So yes, we have the issue of general flaws in human memory combined with the fact that much of our very early life ends up being irrelevant to our adult lives.  On top of that, brains aren't fully developed until later in life.  So not only are the memory systems you have in place now deeply flawed, but they weren't even fully operational back when you were a toddler.

Source: BS Neuroscience.

Question: The "jet fuel can't melt steel beams" conspiracy, it's plausibility, and scientific evidence related to the conspiracy.
Answer: Jet fuel burns from 800° to 1500°F, not hot enough to melt steel at 2750°. However, for the towers to give way, their steel frames didn't need to melt, they just had to lose some of their structural strength, which was entirely possible. Hope that clears that up a bit for you.

Question: Why don't we use anesthetic before getting piercings and tattoos?
Answer: Because administration of anesthesia is a potentially deadly activity requiring generally a much higher level of training and credentials (and is therefore really expensive) then administering a tramp stamp.

Question: Where do the rocks around the perimeter of lakes come from?
Answer: I suspect the reason is that: 

Rocks around the lake are those we see laying on the soil's surface or partially in-bedded, being as water from rain, melting snow, the natural level of the lake water rising and receding, washes the surrounding soil into the lake leaving the heavier rocks visible.

Take a flat area of land not far from the lake, the rocks are there, too. But still under the soil from not being subjected to the water erosion that leaves them nearer the surface when closer to the lake.

Question: Why does cleaning our tongue (I.E When brushing our teeth) make our breath smell better?
Answer: Because your tongue is home to tons of bacteria that cause bad breath. Brushing your tongue removes them.

Question: how do satnav routing algorithms work?
Answer: [This animation](_URL_0_) shows the basic way it works, using something called "Dijkstra's Algorithm".

In this algorithm, junctions or intersections are called "nodes". Paths between nodes are assigned a "cost" - the cost might represent the distance, or the journey time.

In the animation, we are trying to find the best route from A to B.

From A, we look at the cost of getting to each node joined to A.

Then, from each of these nodes, we look at the total cost of getting to the next node. When we do this, we check whether we've already found other ways of getting to the same node which cost less. When we find a node, whose onward nodes *all* have less costly ways of reaching them, we disregard that node.

Then we repeat this until we've disregarded all routes to B except one.

Question: Why do new games sold digitally on steam cost as much as physical disks for consoles?
Answer: Not sure but... steam library usually doesnt scratch, can be re-downloaded to a new hdd on a new pc, game is usually full of more goodies/customizable than a console disk blah blah.  Also disks are obsolete.   I dont even have an optical drive and the only time I would have ever really needed one was installing drivers, which a wired connection got me all groovy for.  I guess if you got dat crysis 1 or oblivion on disk...but really they want money too.  I havent actually seen a newerish, even, game on disk for years.  It is a very valid question but in my opinion I would rather pay the same price for a superior product in comparison to the console version even though I dont retain a physical copy.  Unless I accidentally format my hdd afyer moving to the Yukon territory

Question: ELIP: Physics terms
Answer: Speed: how fast you are going

Velocity: Your speed and direction. (if you move backwards, your speed may be the same, but your velocity is negative)

Acceleration: Your change in velocity as time changes. It can be the result of your speed changing (speeding up or slowing down) or it can be because of a change in direction (like going in circles, your speed can be constant, but your direction is always changing so your velocity is changing)

Mass: Think of this as measure of how much you resist acceleration. How hard is it to change your speed or change the direction of your motion. 

Weight: This is force that results from your mass being accelerated in a gravitational field. The more gravity you feel, the more you weigh. For instance, on the Moon, the gravity is only about 1/6 the gravity of the Earth, so you only weigh about 1/6 of what you weigh on Earth. That means if you weight 60 lbs now, on the Moon you will only weigh 10 lbs, about as much as a small dog.

Distance: A measure between two points in space. 

Displacement: A change in measurement that usually refers to either distance (linear displacement) or it might be a measure of volume. (how much water does this object displace).

Question: Why can I always see the moon? During the day, why can I still see it, though slightly faded?
Answer: Because it's there.

The moon is a big ball of rock and dust about a quarter of a million miles above us. At night, the part that the sun shines on is easily visible to us, but the rest of the moon is still there. During the day it gets just as much light as Earth, and is quite reflective, so it's bright enough to be seen during the day.

Question: Why are "weeds" more fertile than other plants?
Answer: This is essentially *why* we classify them as weeds. The defining trait of weeds is "they grow where we don't want them to" and fairly typically this involves invasive growth, tolerance for disturbed earth, and rapid spread/growth. In other words, "they show up where we're doing yard work, and won't go away"

Biologically, the plants we call weeds aren't necessarily all that closely related, they just share traits a particular population finds annoying. So the mechanisms for how, and even the environments they prosper in, can vary widely.

Beyond that, many of the plants we *do* want, we are growing outside of their natural environment. We choose them for ornamentation, not suitability. So they may require specialized care and be relatively incapable of spreading in the garden, even though they could spread all over the place they call "Home."

Question: Pointers in C++, how to use them and why we need them
Answer: It's a pointer to a memory location. If you have a massive data structure then it's more efficient to pass a pointer which just points to a memory location than it is to pass it as a variable that will duplicate the data structure.

Question: Where did the bacteria in our mouths come from?
Answer: Your fingers, straws, cups, forks, spoons, the air, the food you put in your mouth has bacteria on it (think eating a piece of bread,) your toothbrush has bacteria all over it.

Bacteria are extremely numerous and extremely common. Brushing your teeth doesn't eliminate all of them, cooking your food doesn't eliminate all of them. They're a fact of nature, good or bad, and you do need them to survive. Your body is covered in them, inside and out.

Question: does every living creature feel pain?
Answer: No, many animals lack the nervous system requirements to feel pain as we would understand it.  Plants are totally out of the running and bacteria are just single cells.

Question: how much power does the Queen of England really have?
Answer: The first thing to remember is there no black and white period in time where the monarch simply stopped having "real" power. The British monarchy is entirely the result of literally more than a millennium of political evolution. There were, however, important steps to turning the monarchy from one of real power to the ceremonial institution it is today. It started as early as the Magna Carta of 1216, which basically stated that the monarch was ruling not on his own accord, but by the consent of the barons. (Today, this is understood as "by the consent of the subjects.") You also had the establishment of Parliament, the Reform Act of 1832, among many others, probably too many to list. All of these acts and precedents gradually turned the monarchy into what it is today.

But another important thing to remember is other than Charles I, who believed in the divine rule of kings, there really has never been any period of time where a British monarch ruled completely on their own and without consequence. There were always advisers, councils and certain rules that the monarch had to honor in order to rule without dispute.

I'm probably getting a little off-topic, but the idea I'm trying to raise here is that Elizabeth's power, in theory, is quite vast, but in practice, she would never be allowed to actually rule in the way you've suggested: change laws on a whim, sentence someone to death, etc. Her formal duties today generally consist of opening and closing sessions of Parliament, being an ambassador/representative of the UK, that sort of thing. Her effective political neutrality is both personal choice but also custom... Any modern day monarch who seriously tried to interfere would almost assuredly be forced into abdication.

The times of when monarchs actually could sentence people to death or almost single-handedly issue laws almost assuredly died out after Charles I was executed, and the UK (which didn't formally exist until 1701), entered the period known as the Interregnum. Parliament did not take kindly to the idea of a monarch being above the laws of the land, and every monarch after that period in time saw any real power heavily curtailed.

Question: Why do neo-Nazis exist outside of Germany if they're not part of the Aryan race?
Answer: What do you mean by "the Aryan race"? The original Nazis took that phrase because, at the time, it was (wrongly) believed that most of the languages in Europe came from a region of Persia that was home to the actual Aryans. The Nazis then simply claimed there was an "Aryan race", and that it was the "original" European race and therefore the "master race", and that the pure "Aryans" were the Germans and Nordic peoples.

The point is that there is no such thing as an "Aryan race", but for many people it simply meant either "German" or "north European" or "white". (Incidentally, if you use "Caucasian" to mean "white", that's wrong also, for very much the same reason: real Caucasians are very much darker than the average European.) Because the concept was a pure invention, it could mean whatever you wanted it to mean.

Another point is that not all people we call "Nazis" are the same. These days we think of "Nazi" as being a general term to describe a particularly nasty sort of racist, but technically speaking a Nazi is a member of the National Socialist German Workers' Party (which no longer exists). Not all neo-Nazis agree with absolutely everything the Nazi Party believed in.

For example, the original Nazis were "völkisch", meaning they were particularly fascinated by Germanic folklore -- this is why Wagner was such a favourite of Hitler's, as he wrote entire operas based on pre-Christian German sagas -- and wove that into their ideology.

Movements like the "Alt-right" movement are technically not actually Nazi, but we use "neo-Nazi" to mean "modern movement that looks horribly like Nazism". They don't have to sign up to everything the Nazis believed, they just have to have an ideology based heavily on white nationalism or white supremecy. For American white nationalists, this means broadening the concept of the "master race" to all whites, or at least all people of European descent.

Question: Why do Atomic Bombs make a "Mushroom" shaped cloud when they detonate?
Answer: Hot air rises.  When there is a large enough source of heat, it creates a column of hot air that is much hotter in the center than on the edges.  The center of the column rises faster, causing the air around the edges to curl and create the mushroom shape.  Then, with a big enough explosion the air eventually reaches the point in the atmosphere where the hot air isn't any less dense than the surrounding air, and it stops rising and instead spreads out, forming the cap of the mushroom.

Question: Why do hackers feel the need to release private information to the public like officals' names and addresses? What do they gain from this?
Answer: The same thing that kid in middle school got out of making fun of your shoes and squirting ketchup on them. Publicity and embarrassment. Bullies thrive off of the reaction they get out of it, my assumption is thats what pointless hackers get out of pointless hacking.

Question: How Can Viewers Be Influenced by Unrealistic Standards of Beauty in the Media, but Not By Violence in the Media?
Answer: It's a good question, and I think it really has to do with attitude more than anything else. And attitude is important.

It's entirely possible (even likely) that video games do influence people, but not necessarily in the ways you hear about in the media. The typical claim about video games, for example, is that they condition people to commit violent acts, or they make people more prone to engage in violence. 

And that's pretty absurd because millions upon millions of people play violent games and watch violent movies/TV without committing violent acts. That's what people get up in arms, so to speak, about.

But that doesn't mean people aren't being influenced in any way. It's entirely plausible that people are being desensitized to the sight of violence, and that this changes the way they think about violence in the world. 

I was in high school when the Iraq war started, and I remember that kids wanted to watch the coverage on the news so they could see the bombs dropping on Baghdad. And it was this almost pretty kind of green night-vision view, with these glowing lights that were rockets and explosions. 

But really, what we were watching was lots of people dying horrible, fiery deaths. But it was hard to register it as that, and there's an argument to be made that we had already been desensitized to what we were seeing, and a barrier had been placed between us and the images.

And that's dangerous because we're engaging in these drone attacks with what we see as a faceless enemy. I could believe that decades of violent movies/games/TV has changed the way we see this kind of violence in the world. It doesn't mean we necessarily support something like drone attacks, but it can still change the way we understand them. It changes the way we assess that kind of violence.

When you take something like ideals of beauty, it's a similar thing: we're being bombarded with literally impossible (thanks to Photoshop) or unreasonable standards of beauty and it changes the way we perceive beauty, both in others and in ourselves. And once this understanding of beauty has been changed, everything related to beauty is affected. 

So our expectations change, and then our attitudes change, too. Women (and men, too, definitely) see a cultural standard of beauty that tells them to look a certain way that may be unhealthy or impossible. And they might judge other people harshly for not living up to these standards, making it that much harder for people to be comfortable with themselves.

So with both beauty and violence, we end up understanding things to be different from how they may actually be: we don't see realistic images of beauty, and we don't see realistic images of violence. And in both cases, it goes deeper than putting on makeup or shooting a gun, because what it really hurts is how we assess these actions.

Other people may interpret it differently, but this is how I've come to reconcile the two. And I think about it a lot, because I think I'm affected by both a lot more than I'd like to admit.

-----

EDIT: Woah, I was away from my computer all day and I wasn't expecting this reaction. Thanks for the gold, I really appreciate it.

-----

EDIT2: A lot of people have brought up the real vs. fictional violence issue, and especially given the horrible violence in Boston, it's a valid point. I'm not trying to argue that we're desensitized to actual killing. We're not being turned into psychopaths. Yes, people used to go to public executions, but it's the context that really matters. Action movies tell compelling narratives in which most violence is thrilling, unless someone on your side is hurt. And a public execution frames death as justice.

But when random people are hurt or killed (and I just heard the news about Boston, so I'm still coming to terms with the insanity of the situation), it's a different context. I'm not an expert on media and sociology, but what I was trying to get at is that being exposed to violence in a positive light *must* be changing the way we consider and reflect on violence. 

When Rambo shoots a bunch of guys in a rice paddy, we cheer, and we're not considering that a bunch of people who had childhood crushes, who had decades' worth of dreams, and lovers, and family drama - that a whole bunch of life stories just ended. It's a bunch of bad guys dying. And when drones take out families in Pakistan, people say "it was necessary because they were bad people," but it was *an entire family's narrative ending in a moment* because we thought they deserved it for associating with terrorists. And I'm not trying to make a point about drone strikes - but I do think that there's a *separation*, as named_theorem put it, between what's happening and how we see it (and consider it). 

You could make an argument that it's not new and that it's something that always manifests in some way or another, as an aspect of human nature, but it's still worth considering how we, as a culture, learn to see violence the way we do.

Question: I currently have a cold, and have a runny nose. Why is it that when I snort really hard and my nasal cavity seems to get "tight" that i feel that release of air shortly after?
Answer: I know exactly what you're talking about, like your nose pressurises then slowly deflates.  

Waiting for a good answer :)

Question: Why fog lights are able to cut through fog while brights only light up the fog more.
Answer: Fog lights are closer to the ground and are aimed slightly downward, so that only the fog very close to the road's surface reflects light back. High beams are high and have a wide beam that sends light upward, so that instead of just a thin layer of fog between you and the road being lit up just about everything in front of your car is.

Question: What is turbulence? And how do airplane pilots sometimes know when they are about to hit turbulence?
Answer: Pilot here...Pilot reports are really the best way to know when it will be bumpy. One plane 100 miles ahead will report turbulence at a certain altitude to ATC and then they will relay the message to other planes. Those other planes can then decide if they want to deviate course or altitude...Also just don't fly into those big puffy white clouds, they are bumpy.

Question: What's the difference between RealD 3D  &  IMAX 3D?
Answer: IMAX uses a different polarization technique (linear vs circular). RealD 3D can tolerate a lot more head movement, while with IMAX 3D you pretty much have to keep your head focused on the screen, but can work even when sitting at an extreme angle, RealD 3D has a more noticeable sweetspot (so the 3D effect degrades more easily).  
  
RealD 3D is shown on a single 2K projector or a single 4K projector, with the projector alternating at 144fps (each eye is shown a single frame 3x). IMAX 3D (and 2D) use dual 2K projectors, which gives you much brighter picture (a main complaint with RealD 3D). IMAX also has their new dual 4K laser projection which is their renovated 70mm IMAX theaters, only a handful exist currently (such as the famous Chinese TCL theater in Hollywood) but over 70 around the world are confirmed to switch in the near future.   
  
IMAX 3D is also more "3D" meaning the separation between the front and back of the screen is more noticeable (partially due to the curvature of the screens, the curvature of regular theaters is less). The IMAX Corporation analyzes all 3D movies they are set to screen to make sure everything looks good.

Question: how do your eyes get dilated?
Answer: How: A little muscle called the iris dilator constricts and relaxes according to stimuli, to let more or less light in as needed. Good info here: _URL_0_. Sometimes your optometrist will use drops to see inside better. Drugs and trauma (concussion) can also make one or both eyes dilate improperly. 

Fun fact: Women used to put drops of foxglove in their eyes to make themselves more attractive. When you're excited, your pupils will dilate. ;)

Question: What is the difference between Shia and Sunni branches of Islam
Answer: It started after Muhammed died and there was a power struggle over who would be caliph. Basically that's where everything went to hell. Sunnis believe that Abu Bakr, the father of Muhammad's wife Aisha, was Muhammad's rightful successor.  
  
Shias believe that Muhammad divinely ordained his cousin and son-in-law Ali Ibn Abi Talib (the father of his grandsons Hasan ibn Ali and Hussein ibn Ali) in accordance with the command of Allah to be the next caliph, making Ali and his direct descendants Muhammad's successors.     

Shia theology discounts the legitimacy of the first three caliphs and believes that Ali is the second-most divinely inspired man (after Muhammad) and that he and his descendants by Fatimah, the Imams, are the sole legitimate Islamic leaders.
The Imamate of the Shia encompasses far more of a prophetic function than the Caliphate of the Sunnis. Unlike Sunni, Shias believe special spiritual qualities have been granted not only to Muhammad but also to Ali and the other Imams.

Question: How can any drug cost $360,000 a year for a patient.
Answer: When a pharmaceutical company creates and patents a new drug, they can charge as much as they want for it, since no one else is able to sell or produce it without their consent. The reason this doesn't completely prevent people from accessing the drug is because their health insurance providers often pay for it. On top of making a profit, the pharmaceutical companies use the money to research and develop new drugs and to cover the costs of other drugs that didn't make it to the market.

Question: Why are some foods high in sodium but they don't taste particularly salty?
Answer: Not all sodium is in the form of salt (sodium chloride).  Baking soda, for example, doesn't taste nearly as salty as the same amount as salt.  MSG has sodium and isn't salty (though it's generally used in small quantities).  Also, other tastes, especially sweetness, can hide the taste of salt.

Question: How is the curiosity rover different than the mars rover?
Answer: NASA has successfully landed three rovers on Mars.  You can [see the differences here](_URL_0_).

The Curiosity rover has 10 times the mass of scientific instruments than the Spirit or Opportunity rovers.

It will be much better at studying the climate and geology of Mars, and better at determining whether there is/was life there.

Basically, it is much bigger and can do a ton of stuff that the previous rovers couldn't do.

Question: Are there any differences between Prison Labor and Slave Labor and should we worry about the future of privately owned prisons? I know Slavery is not entirely illegal according to the 13th Amendment. So it's kinda scary to imagine what could happen, am I worrying for no reason?
Answer: > ... should we worry about the future of privately owned prisons?

I don't think you need to worry about the future, privately owned prisons are a concern **today**.

Instead of working solely to rehabilitate inmates, the prison industrial complex is very involved in lobbying government to influence laws to the benefit of their profits, not the general population.

Question: What do people get out of being cuckolded/humiliated?
Answer: I've been into cuckold fantasies for a couple years. I finally told my gf about it, and a few nights ago she slept with another guy. I was really worried that it was just a fantasy, and that afterwards I would feel jealous, disgusted, or angry. But I didn't. She sent me pictures of them together, and looking at them, I just felt extremely aroused and excited. 

It wasn't something she was doing for me- once she found out I was okay with her sleeping with other guys, she ran with it. She wanted it. The biggest turn on for me was that it was such a huge turn on for her. I love thinking of her as this insatiable sexual being. In a traditional relationship, I'd put boundaries on that, try and limit her expression of that. In this type of relationship, I get to encourage her and share that experience with her. It's incredibly intimate and vulnerable.

Question: why when I eat spicy food my poop turns into water.
Answer: Turning poop into water was one of Jesus' less popular miracles.

Question: Where does the money dissappear in a financial crisis like the one in 2008?
Answer: I believe it was never there. It was money 'shown' on shares of all the worlds companies. As soon as the confidence goes, the share price falls and therefore even with the same amount of shares the value is lost if no one is willing to pay for them.

Question: Tipping in the US.
Answer: It's a cycle. Tipping may have originated because wages were low, or customers were being generous. From there however, wages were cut because employers realized that servers were making more for tips. Then there was more pressure to tip, so more people did, and then wages were cut further, etc.

No one (except maybe non-Americans) minds the system. Food prices tend to be a bit cheaper, so you end up paying about the same in the end. And, since the vast majority of the server's salary is based on tips, service tends to be very good. Obviously there are exceptions, but on the whole it's not so bad. 

Very good servers at expensive restaurants can make a lot of money, and this money is often shared with the busboys, the cooks, and whoever else.

Question: why do we have recurring dreams. What makes our brain think those things over and over again? Also what makes us think of things in dreams?
Answer: Ok. This is going to sound a bit strange, but you can trust what I say around 70% of the time. Ok, here we go:

There's a structure in your brain called the hypocampus. Its job is to collect your audio and visual senses and relay them to your higher brain for processing. Much like many businesses have a department dedicated to collecting and organising data for the higher ups to analyse. When you fall asleep, most of the input to your hypocampus from your eyes and ears is shut off. So your hypocampus is only receiving a fraction of the information it was receiving before. What it does now is quite strange. 

Your hypocampus, much like the data collection department in a large company would do, simply makes it up. In order to keep the nerve pathways healthy and active, it fires messages off into the higher centers semi-randomly. The reason I say semi-randomly is because these messages can sometimes be affected by the upper brain, or other parts of the brain and spinal chord while you sleep. Ever wonder why when you really need to pee while you're sleeping you sometimes have a pee dream that wakes you up and makes you run to a toilet? That's an area of your lower brain that would normally send the "I need to pee" message to the higher brain to make you think about it. Except while you're asleep it gets jumbled up with a lot of the random stuff. 

Now, recurring dreams are a bit different. That could probably only be explained by imprinting or overactivity of the higher brain during sleep (due to sleep apnea or some other sleep disorder). So basically, your higher brain (which is you and your consciousness) is stressing something. Like "fuck that was embarrassing", or "that bastard killed my parents in an alley behind a theatre", and the messages from your hypocampus jumble it a bit and it gets accidently saved as a memory. 

Hope this helped!

Question: The difference between OOP, Top-Down programming, and bottom-up programming.
Answer: [This is bottom up programming.](_URL_3_) The first sentence says it all.

[This is top down programming.](_URL_0_) Again, the first sentence says it all.

[Object Oriented Programming](_URL_1_) is a concept of encapsulating tuples of data as "objects" as a type and associating them with behaviors relating to those types.

It takes a bit of description for it to make sense, so read the Wikipedia and look at the examples. In a practical sense, you express a bunch of variables and assign them a type name.

For example, you have wheels, doors, and an engine, and call it a car. This is distinct from wheels, doors, and an engine and calling it a plane. Yes, they have all the same parts, but that does not make them the same thing. The distinction is important.

And now that you have a type, you can instance variables of that type. "car A; car B;" for example.

You don't act upon the collection of variables, you act upon the object. You don't "A.door = open;", you write functions (behaviors) that know how to do it - "open_door(car c) { c.door = open; }"

This just barely scrapes the surface; it doesn't describe *why* you would want to do this, or how it's helpful, but that's because I didn't introduce you to polymorphism. There's so much more, but it's an academic exercise. Start with the Wikipedia article, if you're interested.

And if you're studying C++, you'll eventually want to [read this](_URL_2_). Long story short, if you don't have to make that function or variable a member of a class, don't. If this doesn't make sense, it will. If you're not using C++, then ignore this paragraph entirely; other languages will be very different.

Question: Why is healthcare in the US so connected to religion?
Answer: One of the inherent values of Christianity (and one that is not practiced that well, imo) is taking care of the sick and the infirm. Providing medical care is a natural outgrowth of this belief. 

It is my understanding that medicine was not always the respected career field it is now. It was once sort of looked down upon because you spent your time around sick people, and were much more likely to get sick yourself. It took real selflessness--the sort  that would be found in joining a religious order (please, no jokes about pedophilia), to help sick people. So, many hospitals were started by religious groups.

Question: Can lakes that are dead zones be "un-dead zoned" or purified
Answer: Possibly.

The problem is the absence of adequate oxygen, but the underlying cause can be different. For instance the most common cause is the increase in phosphorus allowing the bacteria that feeds on it growing at a faster rate, and they eat up the oxygen.

So we could find something to destroy the bacteria in large quantities. Radiation might work.

We could possibly find something else that eats the phosphorus but doesn't consume the oxygen. At which point it is a race between the two phosphorus eating things to see which outlasts the other.

In the oceans either solution is difficult to do because of tides, the sheer size, ocean currents and a number of other factors. Lakes are a little easier because it is a more enclosed environment. Also there can be unintended consequences of either solution.

However all of this is theoretical, we don't have a good solution as of yet.

Question: How does a gentle rocking motion help send people to sleep?
Answer: Because it reminds then of being in the woumb. Same reason that white noise lulls people to sleep.

Question: How does Google or _URL_0_ still know my real IP address when I'm using a VPN?
Answer: They shouldn't be able to do that.

But, as [this page on the whatismyipaddress website](_URL_0_) describes, it may be that the real IP address is being "leaked". The leak is using something called "WebRTC", which can be tricked into finding your real IP address and sending it to the server.

The page also describes how to prevent this happening in several major browsers, if it's something you're worried about.

Question: Why does human hair grow for so long that it has to be cut while the hair on chimpanzees or cats for instance just stop at a certain point?
Answer: I think that's because they have fur/body hair rather than hair. Poodles, for example, have hair and they need regular haircuts, i believe. 

I don't really know why the body hair/fur doesn't grow, probably just falls out before it gets too long... whereas the hair on our head doesn't do the same or had a longer life.

Question: Why do minor illnesses like a head cold take the body sometimes weeks to get rid of, whereas Gastroenteritis or Influenza can take a day or two?
Answer: Different viruses/bacteria have different durations before our immune system can eradicate the pathogen. Also, in areas like the sinuses, inflammation from allergies or viral infections can predispose the tight areas to subsequent bacterial overgrowth/infection due to lack of ability to drain properly.

Question: Why when I think about actually breathing do i find myself having to breathe "manually" until I forget about it?
Answer: Breathing is an act that is based in an involuntary part of the brain but a portion has become voluntary (because it's used in speech). Two different brain circuits can control it, therefore it seems necessary at times and completely automatic at other times. 

Edit:typos, typos, typos

Question: Why programs spend so much time shutting down/closing? Especially when I can force quit or even pull the plug without causing problems
Answer: >  Also, I'm pretty advanced with technology as I've done a lot of computer programming and keep up to date with a lot of tech stuff so you don't have to dumb it down TOO much

Given you're asking this question, you're not.

Anyway, short answer is that they're saving their state. On shutdown, they'll be writing out your documents (and any information to attempt to recover the files incase they break) and the settings such that they can be opened properly next time.

In addition, hard drives are **slow**. In order to try and hide the speed, the data isn't always written to disk when you hit save. The data may not even be read from the disk when you load. this is done by having a "cache" in memory of data that has been saved (writeback cache) and recently loaded (erm...just cache). By saving to the cache, your program seems faster, and then your operating system will write it back out in the background. Prefetch is also used to try and hide this. This is where your operating system realises you've fetched a lot of data that is in a row, so also loads the rest into the cache just incase you need it. This cache is typically disabled for little USB sticks, which is why you can just rip them out with no ill effects.

When your computer shuts down, it systematically closes all the programs and lets them do their cleanup. If they don't close in x seconds, they're just killed and marked as non-responding. The other problem is the cache. Recall that the data hasn't actually been written to disk; this time is then spent writing that data and ensuring that the hardware is in a good state. If you just pull the plug, the contents of that cache get lost, and, well, everything breaks. On top of this, your operating system is also writing out useful data that is required on next boot.

Question: What actually happens when food or a drink "goes down the wrong pipe"?
Answer: I seem to be prone to this for some reason, I've never figured out why. I figured out years ago that when I feel this is about to happen (I can always get the sensation right before I start coughing) I just quickly bend over as if reaching for my toes. I can literally feel the liquid draining back up my throat and the problem is gone. I cannot stress how much this one weird trick has actually made my life better. It would happen so often, and I wouldn't feel right for a good 30 or so minutes after. Now I just bend over and I'm fine. However, I have the new problem of having to explain to people around me what I'm doing.

Question: how can the majority of large animals eat so infrequently and such simple diets yet maintain such strength and mass?
Answer: They eat 5-7000 calories/day.  That is a huge amount for a  <  300 lb animal.  Meat is very calorie dense and they eat a ton of it.

Question: How to claim unfair dismissal in the UK?
Answer: You can read about [employment tribunal](https://www._URL_0_/employment-tribunals) over at _URL_0_. If you scroll down there's a enquiry line you can call.

Question: Why am I no longer hungry after being hungry for a long time?
Answer: You eat food and your stomach has stuff in it, then when it starts to be digested your body want to replenish the lost food in your stomach. After there is no more food your body adjusts to have little of no food and you wont get hungry for a little while. (this is a very simply explain answer there is a much more complicated scientific answer if you really want)

Question: How can it be that my singing Hallmark card has more technological power than Apollo 11?
Answer: This trope is accurate when discussing processing power, but not technological power. I'm not even sure how one would measure technological power.

Question: What is abstraction in computer science?
Answer: Computers do lots of really complex things, right?  In order to make them simple for people to understand and work with, we provide *abstractions* of them.

Let's say we want to have a linked list of numbers.  You could, every time you want to add an element to that list, allocate the memory, put the value in your new data structure, find the end of the list and then update that to point at your new element.  You could, every time you want to access the *N*th item, loop through all the elements of that list until you've gone through *N* and then use that value.

This is not only a lot of typing, it's error prone  &  all that duplication makes it hard to modify your code if, for example, you wanted to replace your linked list with a more efficient skip list or something.  What do you do?

You write some functions that give you an `add_element()` function and a `get_nth_element()` function.  You can use these when working on a list *without caring how it works under the hood*.  This leaves you free to use linked lists without massive code duplication, easily fix bugs or even change how it's implemented.

Providing that interface over a complex underlying implementation is an **abstraction**.  Abstractions are everywhere.  When you open a web page, you're not telling the computer how many volts to shoot across your ethernet cable, you're working on top of a bunch of layers of abstraction that give you a simplified way of doing a complex task.

Question: How is it that during the day I can see the moon and the sun, but on the opposite side of the earth it's night time and the moon is clearly visible?
Answer: If the moon is directly above you, the it will NOT be visible on the other side of the earth. It will be a dark, moonless night for them.  If the moon is to your left, it will appear to the right in the sky of someone on the other side of the earth from you.  The moon is high above the earth. Therefore visible to a large part of the earth simultaneously.

Question: What's going on with the NBA?
Answer: Some NBA owners are terrible businessmen who negotiate contracts they can't afford to pay.  The rest of the league can't tell them to fix it themselves, because as soon as they stop operating as a single entity they lose anti-trust protection.  As a result, the league has to protect the mismanaged teams.  They chose to lock out the players and try for a bigger slice of the pie.

The difference between the NBA and the NFL lockouts is that in the case of basketball, its now the second or third most popular sport in the world.  This gives the players enormous leverage, as a majority of them can find work overseas.  And remember, the players want to play, its the owners that locked the doors.  That's why you don't see the players chomping at the bit to compromise.  The lockout hurts the owners more than the players, and eventually they're going to need to generate revenue outside of jersey sales.

Question: Why do people become more religious as they get older?
Answer: Statistics notwithstanding, you're generalizing. I'm in my 70s, never thought much about religion when I was young (because my folks were thoroughly secular and didn't care about religion), but as I've gotten older I've become more and more aware of the damage religious belief and doctrine does to people -- especially younger people who have been brainwashed. The older I get, the more ANTI-religious I become.

Question: The concept of the trinity and Jesus his sacrifice.
Answer: >  Christians believe that there is one god that is 3 different people in one?

Most do, in some way or other. You're right, it's highly illogical, but the Christian Church in its early years had the problem that the Bible talks of there being only one god, but it also seems to talk about Jesus and the Holy Spirit as if they were gods. One solution is to say that they're all part of the same entity, but different denominations have different ways of explaining how this works.

One example of this is what's known as the Filioque Controversy. Basically, this is an argument about whether the Holy Spirit comes from God the Father, or from both the Father and the Son ("filioque" is Latin for "and the son"). This argument got so bad, it was one of the things that caused a split in the Church in 1054, dividing it into the Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church.

 >  So god send down his son, who is his own father to commit suicide to forgive us for the sin he originally gave us?

Few Christians believe that God "gave us sin". Rather, the first humans rebelled against God by eating of the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil. Of course, the obvious argument is that God did create the Garden of Eden and put the Tree of Knowledge in it; Christians don't interpret it that way, and instead point to the fact that the serpent set things in motion by *tricking* Adam and Eve into eating the fruit.

Again, there are different interpretations of this, and different Christians have different ways of looking at it.

 >  why is murder/suicide necessary for forgiveness?

This is in fact an easy question to deal with: in the 1st century, this part of the story actually made sense. The very first Christians were Jews, and in their religion at the time, the sacrificial cult was very much alive. Basically, if you did something wrong, you had to sacrifice something -- an animal, for serious offences. It was a sort of religious fine, but it was ritualized: the animal was slaughtered, and it was said that its blood was what was necessary for atonement.

For Jews who had grown up with that system, it makes sense that Jesus would be the ultimate sacrifice, one that would make all future sacrifices unnecessary. Most Christians believe that Jesus did this willingly, so it was a self-sacrifice, but that's another point that prompts debate. Since the Temple was destroyed not long after, and the sacrificial cult thus brought to an end, it would have been comforting for those early Christians to know that they could still be forgiven.

 >  If god is all powerful and he created this whole system anyways, couldn't he just forgive us without murdering his own son?

There's no good explanation for that one, of course. Yet again, different branches of Christianity have different ways of dealing with this question.

In the real world, it would have been a way for Jesus's followers to make sense of the fact that their rabbi, who they thought would be the Messiah who would lead a revolution to destroy the Romans and set up God's Kingdom, died.

In theological terms, one possible explanation is that it was necessary for the Messiah to conquer death itself, by first dying and then being raised back to life -- proof to us that even death is no match for God.

 >  I hope someone can explain this to me.

Difficult, considering that this has been the subject of debate and even splits in the Church for two thousand years. The greatest theological minds in history have attempted to explain all this, and none of them has convincingly succeeded. Either the whole thing is complete bunk; or it's too vastly complicated to be explicable, and you have to take the whole thing on faith.

Question: Sleep? What is that?
Answer: Sleep is a metabolic process where your body is put at rest because your brain needs some time to cool off from all the information it had to process that day.
A good analogy is a not so perfect vehicle. Imagine a vehicle that can only be driven 2 hours at a time before it overheats. To be able to drive long distance, you would need to immobilize it so you can safely turn the engine off to let it cool down. When you stop, you have 2 choices, you either turn the engine off right away or you can just sit there and rev the engine up and down by playing with the accelerator, which will increase the amount of time to cool off.  
Well, same thing for our brain, when we lay down , we are immobilizing ourselves but our brain might still be going. An irregular melatonin production is probably the main culprit as this chemical is needed to regulate sleep.  
Melatonin production is affected by a lot of factors but 2 of them are the main culprit. Stress and Environment. Obviously, a  stressed person will take longer to go to sleep but what about the environment. Well, It is now being acknowledged that looking at a bright light will reduce your chances of falling asleep fast. Cellphone, computer screens, TV screens wake us all up.  
So if you want to fall asleep fast , try no to look at a screen or in the presence of bright lights 1 hour before going to bed.
TLDR: get off reddit 1 hour before bedtime.

Question: When nuclear bombs are tested over water, what happens under the water's surface?
Answer: The water's surface is vaporized immediately due to the extreme heat. Those water vapors travel upward and mingle with all of the radio active particles before going far up into the atmosphere. Those tiny water vapors carry radioactive particles with them until the vapors condense and fall as a rain drops. Then you have radio active rain.

Question: how a suppressor can thread into a barrel, and the bullet still pass through, since there is now less space?
Answer: Threaded barrels have the threads on the outside, not the inside. The suppressor will thread onto that, so the internal barrel diameter will not change.

[Here's a picture of the threadings on a barrel.](_URL_0_)

Question: Why are movie tickets so expensive?
Answer: If that were the case, they would do it. The prices are pretty carefully figured out to maximize profit. If they cut the price they wouldn't get enough people to cover the lower per-ticket price, and if they raised it they wouldn't get enough extra to cover the lost people. 

Note that this balance point is different for different theaters, that's why ticket prices vary.

Question: When you look in a mirror why is left and right reversed, but not up and down?
Answer: It isn't left-right reversed. It is front-back reversed.

It *seems* like left and right flip because in order for you to normally turn yourself around, you rotate to one side or the other 180 degrees.

If you were a being that normally faced the other direction by rolling yourself forward or backward 180 degrees, mirrors would appear to flip your up and down.

Question: If i cut a human in half using a sword at the speed of light will i kill him instantly?
Answer: [Everything within roughly a mile of you and your target would be leveled, and a firestorm would engulf the surrounding area. Where you stood would now be a sizable crater.](_URL_0_)

Question: Why are men better spacial thinkers?
Answer: Hunting and warring require spacial thinking more than raising children and collecting berries.

Question: Why do cops always get paid administrative leave after abusing their power instead of being fired?
Answer: Paid administrative leave isn't their punishment.  It's just a tool to allow an investigation to commence without them potentially interfering in that investigation, or even possibly making things worse for themselves or for the organization by their continued actions.  It's basically, "Stay out of the way until we figure out what the actual facts are."

*After* the internal investigation, they may be punished (including being fired) depending on what was discovered.

Question: Why does my voice sound different (and awful) when it's recorded and I hear it replayed?
Answer: When you normally hear your own voice you are hearing two distinct things. First, you hear the normal sound waves coming through the air, into your ear just like everyone else. Second, you are hearing the bone conduction. This is the vibration that your voice causes in your bones that gets transferred to your inner ear. The combination of these two is what you think of as your own voice. Other people only hear the first part.

It sounds so awful to you because it sounds kind of like your voice, but slightly off. The familiar thing that is changed just a little is more disconcerting than a completely different voice.

Question: How can entropy be reversed?
Answer: The traditional answer is ["There is insufficient data for a meaningful answer."](_URL_1_)

However, simply put: at this point it does not appear to be something we can do *universally*.  Entropy is simply the universe's tendency to "settle out" with time; everything gradually settles into low-energy states where they can "jostle" the most.  Open a bottle of perfume, and the perfume evaporates, eventually spreading evenly through the room - that's entropy; just thanks to the random bouncing and wobbling of the molecules that make up the perfume and the air, it will diffuse.

We can cause things to adopt less entropic states by expending energy, but some of the expended energy is lost.  Think of it like building sand castles; we can take diffuse, entropic sand and bind it into form, but doing so is work - hot and sweaty work, to be specific; we lose energy to heat.

This is one potential way by which the universe "dies" - it's called [heat death](_URL_0_), where the energy of the universe is too diffuse to do work, and everything simply settles to an entropic minimum.  However, as that article mentions, it may not actually happen; we don't have sufficient data to say.  Mind you, if it *does* happen, it won't be for googols of years.

Question: Why does the tap water at another persons house taste different than the water in your own house, even though it comes from the same source?
Answer: Not always, maybe from different wells, or different water treatment plants. Maybe different type of plumbing in their house.

PEX vs copper pipes?

Question: Why Does Adding CO2 To Water Change Its Taste?
Answer: When CO2 dissolves in water, part of it actually undergoes an acid-base reaction with the water. That reaction creates a small amount of carbonic acid (H2CO3). Being an acid, it makes the water taste mildly sour. The taste also can vary depending on the origin of the water as well as the process of carbonation.

Question: How do writing credits work on TV shows?
Answer: It's the main people in the making of the show that get the "big credits" so the staring actors, director, editor, producer etc. 

Anyone else is just seen as regular crew members and easily be replaced, it's these bigger names that make the show what it is.

Question: when someone finds treasure, do they get to keep it?
Answer: It's a big, fat it depends.

Typically if you find something, you have an obligation to try to return it to its owner.  Only after you do that and wait long enough does the property become legally yours.

However, there are laws governing salvage and abandoned property that apply.  If I go through the effort to recover something from 200 feet underwater, you can't just swoop in and take it because it was yours.

Finally, many gov'ts have asserted that treasures are protected historical artifacts, and will try to claim them on that basis.

Question: How much damage does a beer, or 2, or 3, etc do to your physical health?
Answer: In moderation?  Unless you have an alcohol triggered medical issue it's gonna do damn near nil to your overall health.

Question: Why isn't there any war on japan. Are they simply peaceful?
Answer: There are still attacks on Japan. In 1997, there was a terrorist attack on the Tokyo subway, which used Sarin Gas. The gas is a deadly nerve agent (a chemical that damages the nervous system), and is manufactured only for use as a chemical weapon. Also, Japan, after the end of World War II, became a new country, with the old, military-run government removed. Because if it's violent past, the peacemakers decided that Japan would not have an active military, and that Japan could not declare war on anybody. Therefore Japan has had 70 years of peace since the end of WWII. However, Japan does have a self-defense force, which is essentially an military, but one which can only be used if Japan is attacked.

Japan also has other problems, like it is feuding with China over some islands that they both claim belong to them.

While Japan hasn't been involved in any wars recently, it still faces threats and violence, but it doesn't make the news that often, because it is usually not as 'newsworthy' as other stories, like ISIS and Ebola in Africa.

Question: In very remote places (e.g. 50km from your nearest neighbor, 2 hour drive to the nearest small village) in places like Canada, Scandinavia, Alaska, etc, what jobs do people do to sustain themselves?
Answer: In Australia they are generally cattle stations, large areas of grazing country breeding cattle for export. In dry areas, there can easily be 50 km between station homesteads.

Question: Where did "Lets dispel with this notion once and for all that 'x' doesn't know what he's doing. He knows exactly what he's doing." come from?
Answer: From a Republican primary debate where Marco Rubio repeated the sentence four times, almost unaltered.

Question: Why are the tips of our fingernails white?
Answer: I'm sure you've heard about [tape over frosted glass](_URL_0_) trick right? Your nail is actually rough on the underside, especially with bits of dead skin still attached. The part of your nail that didn't grow out is firmly "adhered" to the nailbed so it appears translucent because the hydration provided by the nailbed smooths the rough underside like the tape smooths the rough side of frosted glass. If your nails are better hydrated then they dry out slower so sometimes they might still be transparent immediately after growing out  (the same way the tip of your hair tend to be drier than the root).

Question: how do blind people know where to find the little Braille signs?
Answer: They don't know where to find them, they just check the most obvious locations, you may notice that the signs are at natural level in a natural location and not hidden.

Question: How the "Mass Effect" concept works
Answer: It's a made up hand-wavey sci-fi excuse to not think too hard about how your video game spaceship gets from place to place.

There is no scientific explanation.

Question: What did Aristotle mean when he said man was a "political animal"?
Answer: Aristotle constructs man as a fundamentally political animal as opposed to other philosophers like Hobbes or Locke who construct man as individuals who just happen to enter into a society for individual benefit. Aristotle was a realist, and since the only men who exist purely alone were either "beasts or gods", it makes no sense to construct society as a conglomeration of fundamental individuals. Like bees, we exist *only* as part of a broader social structure. 

What makes us more political than bees is what Aristotle calls ορισμος, translated as "definition." Humans can understand and, more importantly, describe to each other abstract concepts through the use of definition and language. This allows us to discuss things like ethics and debate the purpose/nature of our societies, something that bees cannot do. They are more akin to robots. 

There's *a lot* more to this, my thesis on the topic was 100 pages long, but that's a condensed two-paragraph explanation.

Question: Why was Muammar Gaddafi such a bad person?
Answer: Mostly the standard dictator spiel - took power in a coup (albiet overthrowing a monarch rather than a democracy), ruled undemocratically, suppressed any opposition. He distinguished himself by his particular attention to cultivating his cult of personality.

He was a particular villain in the West because he identified as a socialist, opposed the US, and aligned himself with the USSR during the Cold War. The most prominent incident that brought him scorn was when he ordered the [bombing of an American airliner in 1988](_URL_0_).

He was basically a classic dictator who was particularly antagonistic towards the US.

Question: Why does cancer cause so much pain, and which types are the most painful?
Answer: My guess would be Liver or Kidney cancer would be the most painful do to the fact that you could not take pain meds. If the meds dont get filtered out correctly they can not be proscribed.

Question: With what technology do scientists find new planets and explore deep space?
Answer: We are not actually observing the planets themselves, they are too far away for our telescopes.

What we are observing is how bright the stars are. If a star gets dimmer every now and then, at the same interval, again and again and again, then obviously something is passing in front of it at regular intervals.

Question: How are traffic light timings decided? Is there a kind of formula for determining timings?
Answer: The short answer is yes. For individual signals or small networks, the timing can be figured by hand, but for larger networks, civil/traffic engineers use models and even purpose built computer software to link every light in a massive network together to try to prevent jams and keep traffic flowing. Contrary to what feels right, the longer a "cycle" (green yellow red green) is, the more efficient an intersection tends to be.

Question: things that glow in the dark
Answer: First, let's think of [Newton's cradle](_URL_2_), consisting entirely of two balls. One ball falls, transfer that energy to a second ball, which rises. It eventually falls too, and transfer that energy back to the first ball. The key concept here is that energy is conserved.

What happens when you shine light on a material? There is a phenomenon called [fluorescence](_URL_0_). Basically, a photon (i.e. a "ball" in the Newton's cradle) hits an electron (i.e., the other "ball"), and transfers all that energy to that electron. This electron is now excited - when it eventually relaxes (i.e. the "ball" falls), it will emit a photon. So basically light comes, excites electron, electron relaxes, light is emitted.

There is a related phenomenon called [phosphorescence](_URL_1_). It's almost the same as fluorescence - however, the electron stays excited for a _long_ time. In our Newton's cradle analogy, it's like when someone catches the second ball after it has received that energy, and holds it there. So we wait, say, 30 minutes, before we release that ball, and the energy transfer continues as described before. This is what happens with glow in the dark materials - light comes in, excites an electron, but the electron gets trapped in the excited state. It takes them a long time - over minutes or hours - before they relax and emit light. This is why, when you turn off the light, the glow in the dark material glows. It's also the reason the glow fades over time unless you "recharge" it.

There are actually many different colours of glow in the dark material, and it depends on the type of "activator" used. Copper is used for the green colour, and it's most common because it's long lasting.

Edit: Formatting.

Question: Why does plastic get hot when you bend it really fast?
Answer: Essentially: Hot means heat. Heat is energy. The energy comes from forcing mechanical energy (bending it) into the plastic itself.

Question: How is it that something physical happens in your dream and then you wake up and can still feel the sensation?
Answer: You don't ever directly experience sensation (the activation of the nerves in your hand, in this case), you only experience *perception* — the mental state *caused* by sensation. But the brain can also generate false perceptions. That is, it can experience mental states usually experienced in response to sensation, even without the sensation. Dreaming is the most common condition under which this occurs, but hallucinogenic drugs or mental illness can also cause it.

Question: Site security certificates
Answer: It's probably not your tablet. If it's happening on every site that's https, it means your clock is probably wrong. If it's happening on only some sites, it probably means your Internet connection is messed up.

Your tablet came with a list of authorities that it trusts. You can mess with it, but the default set is pretty safe. Websites get one of those agencies to sign a certificate verifying their identity. These signatures are done in such a way that they're basically impossible to hack- without access to the secret key of one of the certificate agencies, it's almost impossible to forge one. 

The certificates get issued for a certain amount of time. When you go to the website, before you establish the secure connection, your Kindle attempts to check the signature on the certificate against the list of trusted certificate authorities. If the certificate isn't signed by someone trusted or if the certificate isn't valid for another reason (for example, it's expired), it throws up the warning.

Question: Avogadro's number
Answer: ## What does it do? 

Suppose you want about one million individual grains of rice. Counting them would be silly. So what do you do? You figure out how much a million grains of rice would *weight*! Then, you just pour on sacks of rice until your measuring scale shows the correct weight.

Now, suppose you wanted to do the same thing, but with lentils or beans or dried blueberries. One million of any of those kinds will be a different weight, and a different number. In fact, you might make a big table telling people how much "a million" of lots of different kinds of tiny things weigh.

In chemistry, instead of rice/lentils/blueberries you're measuring atoms. And instead of "One Million", you use a funny large number called "Avogadro's Constant". 

## Why is it such a funny number?

No big reason. It's just that out units for length/mass/time etc. often don't turn out to be nice neat numbers when we're discovering new things. 

Remember that they couldn't actually count individual atoms, so they couldn't get the weight of "one atom" and multiply. Instead, they figured out a way to accurately estimate how many atoms of were inside certain volumes of gas. In other words, they tried to find ways to tie it to things like "liters" and "grams".

Unfortunately those nice numbers (like "one liter" or "one gram") don't match up to a neat powers-of-ten number of molecules/atoms. Oh well.

Question: On a given construction site, why are there usually 4 people standing around doing nothing or watching someone work, for every 1 person actually working?
Answer: The people that you see standing around doing nothing on a site 'doing nothing' are all working.  Let's pretend that the crew is fixing an underground pipe, and name the crew members and their jobs.

Normally a survey crew marks out where the pipeline is, and where other utilities should be. 

 Now for the working crew...
 First you have the equipment operator, the guy sitting in the excavator. He moves most of the soil, and is responsible for hitting the gas/sewage lines. 

Next you have a crew of several people with shovels to do delicate soil removal, and other general labor. They take shifts spending time in the hole. Space is very limited for both personal and equipment. Have you ever spent 10 hours digging a hole, or managing a 8" angle grinder for weeks straight? It is exhausting, they have to perform this hard manual labor for weeks on end in the raw weather. They need their rest.  

   The hole that is being dug is a dangerous confined space area.  The sides can collapse, or oxygen levels can be lower then normal.  A safety officer should be on hand to monitor the soil conditions and quality of the air. He is to protect the lives of the crew, and makes sure that this construction project never makes it to the 5-o'clock news.

Pipefitters are tasked with removing the damaged section of pipe, and installing a new pipe section. There can be lot of prep work and rigging involved to remove and install these heavy pipe sections. 

If this worksite is on an active road, a crew is needed for traffic management. 

Each trade can have their own foreman, or their can be a single supervisor for the entire construction crew.  

This work site can have various inspectors for each trade, inspectors for the local city, reps for other utilities, and civil engineers can all appear on this site. These workers do all the paperwork, record keeping, and assume the liability for this job. 

Even though there are a dozen or more people on site, only three have shovels. Everyone is working hard at their own speciality.  At any instant there are more people employed to ensure the smooth workflow of the repair and protect the lives of everyone involved, then getting sweaty and getting their hands dirty.   They are all working.

Question: Redditors, what's the difference of Best, Top, and Hot?
Answer: "Top" has the most up votes.

"Best" takes into account the ratio of up to down votes, how quickly they get the votes, etc.

"Hot" are those which are getting votes and responses regardless of if it is highly voted overall. "Hot" would tend to include highly controversial comments which the former options may not.

Question: How do they plan and simulate fireworks?
Answer: I can speak to how it's done by professional display companies. Specialized software such as [Finale](_URL_0_) allows you to set your firing positions or create a rendering of the structure you're shooting from. The software has a wide variety of preloaded fireworks and effects, and you can basically drag-and-drop them. Well it's a bit more complicated than that, but that's it in a nutshell. It also does its rendering much like other pre-viz software so you can get a basic idea of how the show will look. 

Scroll to the bottom of the page I linked to for a series of how-to videos. 

The show is laid out in a "timeline", and you can set cues within this timeline which determine what goes off and when. This is also where music can be imported and cues can be timed based on that.

Question: What would happen immediately if i were to hold something that was incredibly radioactive
Answer: You'd end up like this guy: _URL_0_

 > Over the next nine days Slotin suffered an "agonizing sequence of radiation-induced traumas" including severe diarrhea, reduced urine output, swollen hands, erythema, "massive blisters on his hands and forearms", intestinal paralysis, gangrene and ultimately "a total disintegration of bodily functions"

Question: Scientific Theory vs. layman's idea of theory.
Answer: Scientific concept of a theory: "Based on our testing and observations we believe this is the way things generally work."

Layman's concept of a theory: "All that science and you guys only have a *guess*?"

Question: Is there any way to solve a cubic equation in the same way you can solve a quadratic equation using the quadratic formula? Basically, is there any 1 formula that can solve a cubic equation.
Answer: There is a [general cubic formula](_URL_0_), it's just difficult to memorize.

Question: What is the strange tingly feeling I get when I consciously relax or 'reverse-flex' my legs?
Answer: I can also do this but have never been able to describe it and thought I was alone.  I can seem to do it with my entire body.

Question: What keeps other countries from "bringing the war" to US soil?
Answer: "Force projection", or being able to attack targets a long way from your own country, is not easy.

If you want to attack by air military aircraft don't tend to have very long range, especially fighters. The options are to have a conveniently located airbase, have an aircraft carrier, or run a complicated air-to-air refuelling operation. Most countries can't do any of those. Oh, and you also have to get past the US Air Force.

If you want to attack with missiles, most missiles don't have long enough range, and the ones that do are considered reserved for nukes and ALSO not many countries have them. You don't want the USA thinking you're launching a nuke when you aren't.

If you want to attack by sea, you need a warship or a submarine capable of crossing oceans and operating for a long time. It's yet another thing a lot of countries don't have - such warships are more expensive and harder to make than a ship that just stays close to your own shoreline. Oh, and you also have to get past the US Navy.

And if you want to attack by land, you've got to be Canada or Mexico. Most countries aren't Canada or Mexico.

Question: why is it that destroying things makes me feel better when I'm angry?
Answer: When you build up anxiety and anger, adrenaline is released. 

Adrenaline causes a "fight-or-flight" response in your body. This is a mechanism that usually requires *intense muscular effort*. This is rooted for survival: for example - if you were being chased by a bear, your body will release adrenalin. Your blood vessels will dilate, your heart will beat faster and pump more blood, your pain tolerance will increase and your situational awareness will expand. 

Following a fight-of-flight response, endorphins are released. These endorphins *feel good*, they regulate stress, calm you down. They make you feel 'high'. 

So.. when you get angry, you go primal. You go "fight-or-flight", take it out on the wall, feel no pain, and then get a natural high. 

Some people are psychologically addicted to these natural highs, which could help explain why some folks maintain abusive relationships. Other 'addicts' have better control over their emotions and get their high with extreme sports such as skydiving or free climbing.

Question: The differences between cow's milk, soy milk, and almond milk.
Answer: Well almond milk is blended almonds in water and soy milk is blended soy beans in water. 

I'm not too familiar with cow's milk but I assume it is blended cow and water

Question: Why can't you drink rainfall?
Answer: Living as I do in the rural western U.S., I was initially astonished at your question. For people going "off-grid" in my region, collecting rainwater in cisterns, for household use and not just gardening, can be a viable choice, and I know plenty of people who do it.

So, I'll have to answer your question with two others. "Says who?" and "Where are you?"

Those questions being asked, I'd be inclined to say that rainwater *is* safe to drink, as long as 1) you aren't living downwind from horrible sources of atmospheric pollution, and 2) you take reasonable steps to ensure the water isn't being made dirty by whatever you are collecting it with.

Question: Why do some movies and games come out later in certain parts of the world than others?
Answer: If you're talking about theatrical releases, sometimes, even if theater owners are pretty sure a movie is going to be a hit, they like to wait until it is in fact a hit so they can use it in their advertising: "The Number 1 movie in America" etc. It also helps to build up buzz.

This is why there used to be "road shows," where a movie would open in one city—usually a big city like New York—first, then another city, then another, so nationally syndicated critics could praise it up and down and get people's appetites good and whetted by the time in opened in the rest of the country.

As for Blurays and web DLs, the same marketing psychology may be at work. 

Piracy must not be taking *that* big a bite, because the "let it out a little at a time" approach still seems popular.

Also, because of big price differentials (e.g., movies on DVD and Bluray are usually a *lot* more expensive in Japan, because they can be) companies want to release it in the expensive countries first, so people there can get their fill before the disc is released in the low-price countries, where the temptation to pirate into the higher priced countries is greater.

Question: Why does turning the batteries (in a remote control for instance) provide a little bit more energy?
Answer: The battery contacts get corroded by a thin film of oxide, and moving the battery scrapes the oxide clear or moves to a spot with less oxide.

Question: We can see an ant. If there were some giant, big enough that made us look like ants compared to it, that giant couldn't see the ants we see. Is there anything that ants can see that we can't?
Answer: The giant probably could see the ants if it bent over, if the eyes are of similar construction they should have similar resolution.

A human eye scaled down to ant size wouldn't have greater resolution, that's limited by the number of photoreceptor cells and how well the eyes focuses.

Ants themselves have fairly poor vision (as do most insects) and rely mostly on scent for pathfinding and hunting.

Question: why is a tomato considered a fruit?
Answer: Any plant that has seeds is a fruit. “Vegetable” is strictly a culinary term, to distinguish sweet fruits like cherries from savory fruits like tomatoes.

Question: why are are Americans so precious over their right to bear arms?
Answer: American here. I don't own a gun, but in this world, I plan to eventually get a handgun for self defense.

Here's something about Americans. We *hate* getting shit taken from us. Why did we secede from the British Empire in the late 1700s? Because they took our money and resources and didn't give us adequate representation in Parliament. Why did we have a Civil War in the 1860's? Because the South didn't want to lose their slaves. Sadly we have a way of life that depends on our stuff. One of those things is guns. Some of us want guns just to shoot up buildings and kill people, but most of us want to use guns to defend ourselves against these lunatics if a situation gets to that point. I wouldn't say I'm pro-guns, but in reference to that theatre siege not too long ago, I genuinely believe that a lot of carnage could've been avoided if someone in there had a gun. Not all of it, but a lot. But the problem is that it's pretty easy to get a gun if you can't get one legally. 

In essence, it all boils down to politics nowadays. I have never faced a situation in my life that could've been solved with guns (i.e. hostage situation), but I personally want to avoid this from happening in the first place.

Question: Why isn't Latin spoken anymore?
Answer: This is covered in detail in [this thread](_URL_0_) from /r/AskHistorians. [This answer](_URL_0_c84utax) by /u/dangerbird2 is accurate and yet simple enough for ELI5:

 >  It is important to recognize that for most of its history, the Latin language existed in two primary registers, the Classical Latin used in Roman politics, literature, and law, and the Vulgar Latin spoken in daily life. Vulgar Latin never died out, it simply evolved into the modern Romance languages around the years 600 to 800. Although Classical Latin sees very little use today, the literary register of Latin based off Classical Latin survived for a very long time, evolving independently of the Romance languages. In Western Europe, during Late Antiquity and the Middle Ages, "Classical" Latin remained the primary language of literature, philosophy, the court, and the church. Even after authors like Chaucer and Dante popularized the use of vernacular languages in the late middle ages, and after the Protestant Reformation supported the abandonment of Latin as the liturgical language in their denominations, Latin remained the primary language of diplomacy until the seventeenth century, and of academia until the late nineteenth century. And of course, Church Latin remained the liturgical language of Roman Catholicism until the Second Vatican Council of 1962-1965, which allowed the use of vernacular in mass.

Question: Why does a hovering helicopter rotate with the Earth?
Answer: When starting off on the ground the helicopter already has inertia, going around the center of the Earth.  After lifting off, that inertia can't magically go away since that's a violation of conservation of momentum.  

This is also true with rockets.  NASA prefers to launch rockets in the direction of the planet's rotation, since it can use the planets spinning momentum to get into orbit for slightly less fuel.  If you launch a rocket into orbit going the opposite direction of earth's rotation, it costs more fuel.

- - -

EDIT: Wow, most of the other explanations offered here are terrible.  No, this has nothing to do with air.  This effect would happen with a rocket powered vessel lifting off of the moon's surface too.  Clearly atmospheres aren't required for this.

Here's another way to explain conservation of momentum:  Imagine Earth isn't round, but instead is a flat disc shaped world.  Now imagine a train is moving at 60 kph across the surface, and on top of the train is a helicopter.  As soon as the helicopter lifts off of the train, it will continue to move at 60 kps with the train because the momentum/energy put in the helicopter by the train's motion won't go away.  The energy the moving train put into it cannot be destroyed (conservation of energy demands you can't create nor destroy energy).  To suggest the helicopter is stationary relative to the ground as soon as it stop touching the train implies energy can be destroyed.  Now replace the train with the ground of a round rotating Earth… same exact thing.

Question: Why do Television News Programs get locations completely wrong on maps so often?
Answer: In the past you had a newspaper once per day. The journalists supplied the stories, editors checked them for editorial issues, content checkers (that's a job, not some feature of your word processor) would fact check them and when the newspaper went to the printer it was checked and double checked.

Then some people in the publishing company (news paper or TV or internet) went from "If we get rid of the content checkers who don't generate any contents anyway, we can save ourselves money on that." and the content checking was then done by people who were supposed to do editorial checks. And then the editorial checks got cut down because the stories coming from the journalists were good enough.

So, nobody is checking the content before publishing, nobody is checking the facts before publishing. And that is how you end up with embarrassing mistakes like Brussels ending up in over Paris.

Question: how does sound travel on the ISS
Answer: The air inside the ISS (the medium through which sound inside travels through) is travelling right along with them and isn't accelerating. It's no different from how you're able to talk normally on a plane despite going ~2/3 the speed of sound. Or why when you toss a ball up in a vehicle it doesn't fly to the back.

Question: How come a lot of styles 50 or so years ago dated very well, yet a lot of styles from only 20 or 30 years ago seem to have aged horribly?
Answer: Actually, that seems to be the standard cycle. From my experience.

In the 70s retro-style/fashion from the 30s was "in".
Today, it's from the 60s. 

In the 70s and 80s, 60s style/fashion just looked ridiculous.

Give it 20 or 30 years, and we'll be reliving the 90s. Get your flannel shirts ready!

Question: How did the Soviets make their submarines quieter than American submarines?
Answer: Perhaps I'm missing something, but Soviet subs were pretty much always noisier than US ones if you compare like with like.  The latest Red Navy ones were usually about as stealthy as the previous generation of USN boats.  Unless you're comparing diesel electric subs with nuclear ones, which isn't really a valid comparison.

What specifically do you mean?  Do you have specific comparisons as examples?

Question: USA involvment in Syria/Turkey/Russia
Answer: Turkey is part of NATO, which US is also part of. Russia, supports Assad in Syria. Somewhere in between Syria and Turkey there are some rebels that might be part of ISIS(Its actually more complicated as far as i know there are 6 different fractions fighting). Russia help Syria, and Turkey doesnt like it, and since Turkey is part of NATO other members of NATO sort of helping it..  That is ELI5. the real thing is more complicated.

Question: The difference between RAM and hard drive memory.
Answer: The hard drive isn't memory, it's *storage*.  So, if we use the analogy of a computer as an office: the hard drive is the filing cabinet.  The operating system is the secretary.  The desktop is the memory and the person reading and modifying the files that come across his desk is the processor (CPU).  

So the secretary will pull copies of files from the filing cabinet and place the files on the processor's desk (loading files into memory).  The processor will ask the secretary for a file, and if it is on the desk the secretary hands it to him, he reads it, he makes changes to it.  He hands it back to the secretary to place on the desk.  Or he may have the secretary put a copy of it back in the filing cabinet, too (saving the file to the hard disk).  Anything on the desk, the secretary can hand to him quickly.  Anything in the filing cabinet, the secretary needs more time to retrieve it.

Everything in the filing cabinet is pretty safe.  Everything on the desktop is could disappear if it gets blown off the desk by a strong wind (this is my analogy for the computer losing power).  Got it?

Question: Why can i vividly remember something from 10 years ago but cant remember what I ate a week ago?
Answer: Our brain has two places where memories are stored - one is temporary and another is permanent. So everyday things like the food you eat, dress you wear,etc. are stored in the temporary compartment. Other things that happen during the day - like you getting your first car,etc. too are stored in this unit. When you sleep at night, our brain sifts through the temporary folder and finds out things that are important and need to go to the permanent folder. So the food you eat is trivial, but your first car is important and gets into the permanent compartment.

Question: Why do objects turn bright red when very hot?
Answer: All objects emit some radiation, as objects get hotter, the frequency of the radiation gets higher. Objects that are around room temperature emit radiation that has a lower frequency than we can see. As the objects get hotter, the frequency goes up until we can see it as red, then yellow, all the way up to blue. 

This might lead you to think that eventually really hot objects will emit only ultraviolet radiation that we can't see. However, objects don't emit just one frequency of radiation, they emit an entire range. The strongest frequency might be red, purple, or in the ultraviolet range, but there are always other frequencies emitted, most below the strongest frequency. So even if the strongest frequency is above our visible range, frequencies in our visible range are still emitted, so an object will never "disappear" because it's too hot.

Question: How is it that approaching rain has a smell? What is it that we're smelling an hour before a storm arrives?
Answer: My old organic chemistry professor explained the smell of rain coming in class once. It's also on his [website](_URL_0_): 

 > People often think that they can smell rain coming before it actually starts to rain. Strange, as we would be in rough shape if we actually could smell water as it makes up most of our bodies (imagine being able to smell your saliva!).

 > There is a simple explination [sic] that seems strange at first. Organic compounds are much more soluble in wet air than dry and the world is full of molds that produce organic compounds with aromas. Typically gust of moist air preceed [sic] the onset of a rain storm and this wet air brings with it the smell of the molds.

TL;DR Rain-a-comin' = more humidity. Chemicals we can smell are dissolved in the water in the air, such as molds. More humidity, therefore more smelly chemicals. Hence, rain smell!

Question: How does a person that never drinks untreated water not become ill after swimming in a lake or ocean?
Answer: You are absolutely right to think that we ought to pick up diseases. The reason we don't is because the authorities go to great lengths to ensure that the water we swim in is kept relatively free of nasty stuff.

It's [not recommended](_URL_0_) to swim in water which is not properly managed and monitored.

Question: What is so appealing about Doctor Who?
Answer: I hated the first couple random episodes I watched. Totally didn't get it or the people who like it. 

Yet now I'm a great fan. I got sucked into that universe immediately after watching the 2005 first episode with Rose and the ninth doctor. It may have been a more accessible entry point because the doctor, the companion and I were new together or simply because that doctor was not so campy and over the top.

Dr Who can be very weird and hard to get into, but it is also a 'Hotel California' state of mind that you can never really leave. Dr Who fans are Dr Who fans forever. 

The main thing I love is that the superhero is a doctor who helps people and other creatures feel better and we all win when nobody dies. Yeah. It soothes my inner three year old.

Question: Why does some tap water have so many small air bubbles that it looks like its actually white?
Answer: I think OP asks the milky white type of water that takes some time to clear up.


That's caused by the pressure in the main pipes. Water needs pressure so it can travel from the reservoir to your home. Increasing pressure makes air more soluble and it mixes in easily. Once it is near your faucet, the water loses pressure and the dissolved air separates, leading to super small bubbles that create a milky white appearance as these bubbles also disperse light (similar to fog effects).

Question: Why does Kim Jung Un wear a western suit?
Answer: They don't really see suits as "innately western," they also use architecture designs from the west and even the Android operating system (though heavily modified). Because it works fine.

There's also evidence he himself isn't anti-west, seeing as how he went to school in Switzerland, loves US basketball to the point of inviting Dennis Rodman. It's an act put on for his peeps, and the messages largely target the leadership  &  political ideas of the west anyway, not really their products or stuff.

Question: 3D that doesn't require glasses, like the Nintendo 3DS
Answer: It works because the LCD screen on a 3DS is not your conventional LCD. It uses a technique that basically splits the images sent to each eye based on the angle the eye is to the display. You know those funky strips that changes the picture when you move it? (also super fun to scratch and make those sounds) It's a similar effect, only your brain interprets the result as 3D even though it isn't in the sense of everyday objects that you can hold.

Question: What is the difference between momentum and inertia?
Answer: Inertia is an objects resistance to changes in motion. For instance, a heavier object is harder to push around so it has more inertia. Inertia does not change with speed (unless you consider einstein's theories, which can be ignored in daily life) so a certain object always has the same amount of inertia, which means it will always take the same amount of force to accelerate. 

Momentum is the total amount of motion of all the parts of the object. Specifically it's the velocity of an object times its mass, in other words, the amount of motion times the amount of stuff. An object with a lot of momentum can push a lot of objects out of the way before it stops, while an object with less momentum can only push a few things out of the way before it stops. (an object with a lot of mass counts as many objects with smaller mass, because it can be thought of as a lot of lighter objects glued together). 

A faster object can push more on things (more momentum), but it still takes the same force to change its speed (inertia does not depend on speed).

Question: Why are mobile games so shallow and bad compared to even the much older PC/console games?
Answer: How many of those old console and pc games were free?

Mobile games generally are simply thinly veiled skinner boxes.  Get you hooked on shallow expectation-reward cycle and tease you with micro transactions.  There is no incentive to make them GOOD, no incentive to make them a story based game to play for hours on end.

There are some fun ones out there but they're being made for a new market with different "play patterns", they are built to suit many short bursts of play time and built to encourage micro transactions to support an otherwise free game.

Question: How was google earth created/made, and how how did google complete it so quickly?
Answer: It was funded by the CIA and made using satellite imagery, aerial photography and GIS, or geographic information systems. This project had access to all the images already taken and just compiled them into a single globe. Also if you are asking about street view, Google is an international company and has street view cars all over the world. Look [here](_URL_1_) and [also here](_URL_0_)

Question: Why do our tastes change over time?
Answer: Very likely our tastes change for the same reason everything else about us changes: We grow, we have new experiences, we learn new things.  Most of the cells in our bodies are less than seven years old, and our brains rewire pathways every time you learn something new or have an emotional experience.  So there is every reason to think that your tastes will change over time.

*Example: You eat chocolate covered marischino cherries because they taste amazing; but one night you eat an entire box of them, get sick, and violently throw up, leaving the taste of marischino and bile in your mouth.  After that, cherries (especially marischinos) just don't seem as good as they used to.*

Question: Why is calling Obama a socialist considered an insult? What's so wrong about that type of government anyways?
Answer: During the Cold War, the "enemy" of the United States (as well as most of the wealthy world) were all self-proclaimed socialist nations (The USSR and China being the largest). The word "socialism" has come to represent all the things US Americans prefer about their way of life to that of those countries: freedom, democracy and capitalism. So to call someone a socialist is often to associate them with the brutish Communist societies of the Cold War.

Objectively, Obama is not a socialist. Socialism is any social system where the means of production (ie, all the things presently owned by employers like machines and tools as well as land) are "socially" rather than privately owned and controlled. Obama is more accurately described as a Social Democrat, someone whose ideal society is quite capitalist but with a government who often intervenes to improve efficiency and fairness.

Question: What happens to a spider after it gets sucked up the vacuum cleaner?
Answer: Already answered this one, then you deleted and posted again? Original answer:"Suffocation in the dust I suppose but if it survives the thrill ride of the vacuum hose then I would guess a death by starvation."

Question: Why do I get irritable when I'm hungry?
Answer: Because the animal inside you activates and you engage in "Predator" mode, doing everything in order to secure food and guarantee the survival of your species.

Question: Why do we squint to focus on things far away?
Answer: Our vision basically comes from light passing through the pupil and focusing on the retina, which is the back of the eye. So when you squint, you are changing the shape of your eye and decreasing the amount of light that will enter your pupil. The limited amount of rays make it more likely that they will become more easily focused. (This is a pretty simplified explanation.)

Question: How death works and why it can"t be undone
Answer: ICU doctor here. 

True death is when the brain is dead. When we test for death, we are looking for brain activity. The ability to cough, gag, breath, etc. When there is a question if somebody is dead, we do a perfusion scan that checks to see if the brain is receiving blood. True death or brain death cannot be reversed.

Cardiac "death" occurs all the time and is reversible. When the heart stops, we use medicines, chest compression and artificial breathing to try to protect the other organs. When the heart stops, damage to the other organs quickly occurs because those organs are not receiving blood, oxygen, and glucose. Often we reverse cardiac death through life support mechanisms only to realize that the patient is actually brain death. In contrast to the current case in the news, most families understand this and want their dead loved one disconnected from the artificial support.

Question: Why deep 'cones/holes' are created in the centre of a whirlpool
Answer: While the other comment makes sense I think this is more ELI5.

Remember the centripetal force from highschool physics? The rotation of the water causes the water to want to move more to the outside, causing a water deficit in the center. 

You probably remember from highschool that in order to keep something in a circle spinning you need to keep it pulled towards the center with a Force equal to mV^2/R. In the spinning water this force is absent. (Almost absent, the other water molecules on the outside will push it inwards a bit, which is why the vortex has a finite size, but then you start complicating things too much for ELI5)

Question: How come people might stutter when they talk, but you don't stutter when you sing a song?
Answer: Music therapist here. It's the same reason why people with traumatic brain injuries who loose all ability to speak can sometimes still sing. 

The speech center of the brain is located in a very small part of the left hemisphere. When we are speaking, that part of the brain lights up. But music is associated with many parts of the brain, in the left and right hemisphere. Essentially, more of your brain is working. 

I'd advise everyone to check out the story of Congresswoman Gabby Gifford who lost her ability to speak after a gunshot to the head. Over the course of many months, and work with  a speech pathologist and a music therapist, she regained her ability to speak through singing. Now the opposite side of her brain lights up when she speaks. #musictherapytransplant

Question: Why do Crypto-currencies need to be 'mined'. Why can't they just be created in a certain amount and then bought and sold at a set rate?
Answer: The "mining" is really running the brains of the encryption itself. Without miners, their is no computing power to protect the currency or make it work.

That really was the novelty of bitcoin. An independent economy where helping the currency run paid you in the currency itself.

Question: How is a single-machine software license recognized when it's being used on that machine? Is it registry-tied or IP-address-tied?
Answer: It depends. You can do it to Windows key or a GUID which is a bit more complex. You can tie it to an IP address, but that's generally not a good idea because IP addresses are not necessarily fixed.

Its better to tie it to physical attributes. This is called hardware binding. For example, your MAC address can't (usually) be changed. But what if you had to swap out your network card. So use HDD serial # or CPU serial #. Modern hardware binding uses a combination of several physical components of your PC... so long as only a few of them change during an upgrade it won't invalidate your license. 

Or there could be a physical crypto device like a USB key that is attached. Or there could be a crypto file somewhere hidden on your PC. 

Lots of ways to do it.

Question: If someone was brought up without being told about sex, would they still know what to do?
Answer: Everyone else failed to consider that all the teenagers getting pregnant today are also exposed to huge amounts of sex in the media and their daily lives. If a straight male and female were completely isolated from any mention of sex, then they were introduced to to each other after puberty, it would take some trial and error, and it might take a long time, but they could eventually end up with a kid. The guy would quickly discover that his penis gave him pleasure when he messed around with it. The girl, through cleaning or scratching, would figure out that her vagina gave her pleasure. If they spent enough time together, they could feasibly begin to share these experiences beginning with a form of mutual masturbation. As they fumbled around with each other's parts, and became more familiar with what made each of them aroused, then pregnancy is a possibility even without penetration. It would only take a small epiphany to move to direct penetration.

There is a movie called the [Blue Lagoon](_URL_0_) that covers something like this, though it doesn't go too into detail about the steps that the couple crossed to discover penetrative sex.

Question: Why do windshield wipers push the water to the drivers side?
Answer: The wiper is vertical when it reaches the driver's side, getting more water off than the passenger side.

Question: Why can't we provide internet by using the same technology that broadcasts television shows?
Answer: The TV setup has two BIG perks the internet doesn't.

* It's a one-way connection.
* The messages are being broadcast to no one in particular with little concern about privacy.

Your internet is bi-directional AND intended to be a connection that's potentially private for just you. This results in a **TON** of extra overhead in routing data, encrypting it on a per-user basis, etc. 

For wireless TV broadcasts, the antenna at the TV station has no ability to listen *at all*, and there's no system in place to distinguish unique users (like there is for cell phones).

Question: How does molecular mechanics work?
Answer: Molecular mechanics uses the fundamental forces of physics to describe physical properties of molecules and biological systems. 

This field is usually used in conjection with computational chemistry techniques since the mathematical construct is complicated and tedious. 

In my use of molecular mechanics I used guassview Chem draw and other software to predict spectroscopy analysis. 

In an ELI5 way this could be used to predict what color you would get off you mixed blue and red paint before you actually mixed the paint.  If the software says purple and i observe purple I can say with confidence that my software predicted my mixture.

Now if i mixed 2 chemicals together to make a product that I assume will be created using chemistry intuition and obtained the Mass Spectrometry, Infared spectroscopy data and noticed that my software had the same results i could say that my product is what I think it is.  This is just one elementary use of molecular mechanics.

Question: how the reddit frontpage is determined
Answer: Here's an attempt at a LI5 answer which says more than "most upvotes in littlest time."

Imagine a racetrack for horses that goes on forever in one direction.  The start of the track is labeled "Jan 1, 1970 12:00am" and there are equally spaced notches labeled "Jan 1, 1970 12:01am", "Jan 1, 1970 12:02am", and so on.

When you submit a post, a horse representative is dropped onto the racetrack at the time of submission. If I submit a post now, it will be dropped at the marker reading "Aug 15, 2011 1:02am."

Now hopefully, my horse will start running!  Every time my post gets an upvote, it gets a little burst of energy and moves forward.  Every time my post gets a downvote, it trips up and loses some distance.  If it doesn't get much attention, it'll stay around the marker of the time it was submitted.  But if it gets lots of upvotes, it will start to race faster and faster, even past the horses that are being dropped onto the track upstream for newer posts!

**The front page of r/all is a top 25 list of the horses currently winning this race.**  The front page of a given subreddit is the top 25 list of the horses *from that subreddit* currently in the lead.

Even the very best submissions will stop getting upvotes after a while, so the horse will start to slow down and eventually come to a stop.  Even if it ran out way in front of the other horses, newer horses will have the advantage of being dropped further along the racetrack, so even if my post got a whole ton of upvotes in its lifetime, it won't stay in the top 25 for much longer than a couple hours.

To make up for this, there's also the "top all time" option, which lists the horses who traveled the longest distance, so the time they were submitted plays no role anymore.

Question: Explain how full immersion while living in another country is the fastest way to learn another language?
Answer: That's how you learned English and you were fluent in a few years.

Question: How do fossils of an action or event get made?
Answer: It's fossilized sap. It's basically tree blood, and it flows pretty quickly, and in some cases is almost like water. The insects drown in the stuff while fighting, and the sap hardens over the years.

This might be morbid for a 5 year old, but it would be like having a bunch of concrete dumped on you. The concrete would preserve exactly how you were as it all fell on you, and you would die trapped in the concrete. 

Same thing happened here.

Question: Why is it that you sometimes get the sensation of falling when you're about to fall asleep?
Answer: That is a phenomenon called the "[Hypnic Jerk,](_URL_0_)" and it's very common. Scientists don't really know the cause but it may be attributed to anxiety, caffeine or stress. (I know I get it more when I am overtired). They also happen after you fall asleep, but you don't notice it. As you grow older, they become less frequent.

Question: Why is Russia's cyberattack against the White House not a bigger story?
Answer: The scope of the breach was very limited. To our knowledge, it was limited to essentially the President's schedule and agenda. There was no classified information and the breach did not extend to more secured parts of the system.

Question: How are some physical traits able to skip through a generation?
Answer: You have two copies of each gene, one set from your father, one from your mother. Each copy is called an _allele_. Alleles can be recessive or dominant. If you have one dominant allele from one parent and one recessive from the other, the dominant allele will be expressed. Only if you have two recessive alleles will that version of the gene be expressed.

So, it's easy for some traits to skip a generation if they're recessive, since there are more ways for a dominant allele to take effect.

Let's say you have the a recessive big nose gene. The dominant allele is N and the recessive one is n.

Mother - N, father - N = NN, a small nose

Mother - N, father - N = Nn, a small nose

Mother - n, father - N = nN, a small nose

Mother - n, father - n = nn, big nose

Question: Why the LAPD cooperated so much with OJ during his chase?
Answer: In a fantasy world, we'd imagine that LAPD would call the local military base, and have a fighter plane or attack helicopter fly out and disable the bronco with a missile, bomb or some gun. Maybe have a sniper ahead on the road, shoot the driver or engine block with a large bullet. Maybe have an officer in an armored car drive into the bronco, somehow disable it and a bunch of officers swarm it in some kind of shoot out.

Problem is, OJ was armed, in a car with someone, and the streets and overpasses were filled with lots of bystanders and gawkers. He was being followed in the air by multiple news helicopters, police helicopters, a convoy of police cars, etc. 

He can't escape, just let the situation calm down, he has to stop eventually. There is no immediate threat, let it go play itself out. 

Much like the stand off in Oregon, they just let it peacefully fizzle out, and arrested everyone, with only 1 person dead. Compare that to the mess that occurred in Waco, TX with the branch davidians, or the Weavers.

Question: Why does it cost money to get a domain? And why does the price change for every company and domain ending I use?
Answer: The registry fee the ISPs pay is small yet many are greedy and figure most people are stupid or desperate to get the name they want so charge lots more for it.

Question: Why do big computers have fans but little ones don't?
Answer: A fan in phone would make it too fat. So it uses a heat sink instead. When it reaches maximum temp it then bottlenecks itself til working temps ate resumed..

Question: Why do military and police forces often side with the corrupt governments when the people rise up against oppression?
Answer: Here's the thing:

The government pays their bills. It provides a certain quality of life that is, more or less, guaranteed. Everything is set in place, there are people to handle the ins-and-outs of governing, etc.

Post-rebellion, *none of those things exist right away*. It takes time for everything to stabilize, and if it happens to stabilize in the 'wrong way,' you end up worse then where you started (e.g. the turbulence in post-revolution Egypt).

The Military/Police know this. They know that there is no guarantee that what the revolutionaries would bring would be better than what exists now. 

'Make things better' sounds easy on paper. In practice its a convoluted and painful process that involves lots of people going from a semi-organized revolutionary force into what needs to be an extremely organized government. Once again, look at Egypt - nothing happened quite to plan, and its only recently stabilized - it remains to be seen if the government executes in a way that actually ends up bringing long-term stability.

Question: Why do foods that are bad for you taste better than things that are healthy?
Answer: We've evolved to feel rewarded for certain chemicals and compounds because they are vital for our survival. However, in modern society, we can get them in abundance. Our bodies haven't evolved a way to say 'hey wait, that's way too much of a good thing.' So we over-consume and the excess has deleterious effects on our health.

Question: How does a company such as hooters get away with hiring only large-breasted waitresses? How is this not an ongoing discrimination lawsuit?
Answer: In employment discrimination law in the United States, employers are generally allowed to consider characteristics that would otherwise be discriminatory if they are bona fide occupational qualifications (BFOQ).


Female employees are required to sign that they "acknowledge and affirm" the following:


My job duties require I wear the designated Hooters Girl uniform.


My job duties require that I interact with and entertain the customers.

The Hooters concept is based on female sex appeal and the work environment is one in which joking and entertaining conversations are commonplace.


I do not find my job duties, uniform requirements, or work environment to be offensive, intimidating, hostile, or unwelcome.


[Source] (_URL_0_)

Question: what is the alternative to a two-party system?
Answer: A multi-party system.

For an example, look at Canada.

We have several parties, in fact as long as you are willing to pay for it, you can start your own party based on any political belief. We have the Conservatice party, the Liberal Party, the Blocques de Quebecquois, New Democratic Party (NDP), Green Party, etc. We even have things such as the Marxist-Leninist Party.

Currently we have 5 parties sharing the House of Commons (HoC, Our version of Congress). In the lead with a majority government (more than 50% of the seats) is the Conservative Party, followed by the NDP, followed by Liberals, then the Blocques, and finally with a single seat (their first seat in the HoC) is the Green Party.

It may seem weird, but essentially it works like this, for an area, my personal area is Cambridge, it's in Ontario, there are Members of Parliament (MPs), and you vote them in, instead of voting for the President/Prime Minister you vote for who you want to be the MP for your region. Ours is Gary Goodyear (Conservative). And what happens is the head of the party whose party has the most seats (the most MPs) in the HoC, becomes the Prime Minister and is more or less the director of the HoC.

As to how things get passed, the Prime Minister will bring up a bill/law/whatever that is proposed, the leader of the party with the second most seats is the official opposition, and it acts like a debate until they agree, or until one side wins in a vote by convincing the other members to support them.

This would be the most easily accepted alternative, because it doesn't change that much from the USA's current system, it just allows greater differentiation.

Question: Why do I (and others) talk to themselves?
Answer: Conversing with one's self has long been a common practice amongst humans. It puts our minds at ease when things like taxes, bills, work and life's other discrepancies get us down. Often times, we like to converse with ourselves in order to play out a scenario in our head before an event whether it be huge or insignificant (e.g. talking to that girl we like, asking for a promotion, finding a way to get out of talking to that annoying gas station clerk, etc.). Consequentially, talking to ourselves becomes almost a necessity as a fail safe. If we didn't talk to ourselves in order to play out an event in our heads we would not articulate nearly as well as we do. As for the stress factor, we become our own catalyst and buffer for events in our lives. It allows us to give reassurance to ourselves when others aren't there to talk to our comfort us. It is a natural human action, yet we view it sometimes as crazy because of a common stereotype of the homeless man at the bus stop. We laugh when we see someone talking to themselves because it is in fact a comical sight. However, we all do it…hopefully while no one is looking though.

Question: Why is it after all my ex has put me through, one conversation can undo a ton of work I've made in getting over them?
Answer: I cannot emphasize this enough: The human brain is basically six pounds of fatty Jello. The fact that it is sometimes capable of mathematics and rhetoric does not make it rationally designed; natural selection favors survival and reproduction over logic and happiness.

Bio: Strong pair bonding makes sense for animals like humans, which reach maturity slowly and need lots of care when young. Strong interpersonal emotions would tend to favor long-term relationships, increasing the odds that an infant will survive to adulthood and reproduce.

Psych/neuro: Neurons that fire together wire together, and don't break up easily. A serious relationship creates emotionally powerful associations and circuits in the brain.  The decision to end a relationship doesn't get rid of them on its own. Sometimes they fade over time, but sometimes they only seem to get worse. The good news is that the talking cure works. When thoughts don't go away on their own, talking them over with trusted friends and/or professionals can at least help get them out of the obsessive loop and into the real world.

Question: Why does my stereo measure volume starting in the negative decibels?
Answer: "Decibel" or dB isn't a unit of _URL_0_'s a way of measuring things with large ranges relative to some arbitrary value. dBFS is the measurement for digital signals, and 0dB is the maximum. dB V is the measurement for analog voltages, dB SPL is the measurement for sound pressure level in air. All are different and mean different things.

And you have to consider what it's measuring. Is that the amp gain? The signal going through it? It's all relative.


0dB *SPL* is the threshold for human hearing. 0dB V is moderately low signal. 0dB FS is the highest possible digital signal without distortion.

Question: How does Apple know whether or not a charging cable is "certified"?
Answer: There s a chip inside the lightning cable that tells the phone that its a legitimate chip approved by apple, if the phone doesn't see this, then its not legit. Yes it can be hacked, thats how some knockoff cables from China were introduced.

Question: How come it's harder for countries in South America and Africa to modernize as compared North American, European, and Asian countries?
Answer: South America wasn't founded on wanting freedom, it was colonized to extract resources and enrich its colonizers. 

Then there's foreign interventions in South America. Here's a [map](_URL_0_) of US interventions. 

Then there's home-grown problems like class divisions.

Question: Why are most popular websites created by Americans?
Answer: English, plus the largest portion of internet traffic is American, so anyone who can appeal to the American market will find it easier to make a popular website.

Question: Is there a reason why my leg bounces all the time when I'm sitting down, and I hardly ever notice?
Answer: Its a way your body copes with blood pooling in your lower extremities owing to gravity. As you are involuntarily shaking your leg, the major veins that are embedded in your leg are being squeezed by the surrounding  musculature and this facilitates blood to flow upwards.

Question: How does outside/fast lane of a motorway get congested to the point traffic is at a standstill?
Answer: The scene.

Nobody wants to drive in the slow lanes because they're full of lorries (UK here)so they're traveling at 60. So the next lane in gets full of cars doing just a bit more than the lorries maybe 65 to 70. So you've only got the fast lane to overtake in.

Car doing 70 overtakes long line of cars in the middle doing 65 and every body sticking to the fast lane at 75+ back up behind them.

Even worse when you get a lorrie doing 60 overtaking one doing 58, takes forever for them to get past and all the cars doing 65 are now in the fast lane.

Question: When people drink alcohol, cravings for and use of cigarettes is increased greatly. Is there a scientific basis for this, or is it purely habitual?
Answer: Alcohol is a depressent, nicotine is a stimulant, the two go very well together. 

Alcohol also lowers inhibition and impairs judgement, meaning you are more likely to give into a craving, and less likely to care about the implications of doing so (stinky breath, cancer, ugly looks from non smokers). 

Mixing things that slow you down, with things that speed you up, is seen in a lot of situations. 

At a certain level, smoking while drinking is a very light version of speedballing heroin with cocaine.

Question: Why do wheels (noticed in car tires) seem to be moving backwards when they're rotating really quickly?
Answer: Repost removed. Please remember to search before posting. [I did this one for you.](_URL_0_)

Question: Why is Disney allowed to purchase Fox Entertainment?
Answer: It has not been approved yet. It was just announced today. You can always announce it, it does not mean it will get approved. Actual approval (and if approved, and under what conditions the approval requires) likely wont be settled for 1-2 years from now

AT & T-Time Warner is currently not approved either, and may not be resolved until March  - July depending on specifics.

Question: [America] Why Do Medical Fundraisers Still Ask For Full Cost Of Treatment Instead Of Insurance Premiums?
Answer: I've not seen these things you are talking about, but anyway...

Buying insurance does not pay for the costs of treatment already incurred.  If you get hit by a bus, it unlikely the Elks Lodge is going to buy you insurance during the ambulance ride.  And buying insurance is generally restricted to "open enrollment periods" that happen once a year, and don't become effective for a  month or two after that.

Question: Why do puppies smell funny?
Answer: Dogs produce an oil naturally that has a slightly yeasty smell, (the so-called dog smell). This oil is produced to protect the dog's skin and hair.  Most often, dogs end up picking up bacteria on their skin when they are outdoors.  The combination of the oil and bacteria produce what many call the "wet dog smell". Dogs don't sweat over much of their bodies, however they do sweat on their nose and paws.  That, combined with any bacteria they run in to, most likely explains the smell.

Source: My girlfriend's mother, a vet tech for 15 years.

Question: Landing on Jupiter? Possible?
Answer: There is no conclusive evidence about Jupiter having or not having a solid core. The scientific consensus is that it PROBABLY does a solid core, surrounded a liquid metal layer and then finally a gas layer.

Your spacecraft would probably be crushed fairly early on, or attacked by the nasty gaseous atmosphere, or be destroyed by the magnetic field, etc etc.

Failing all that, you'd hit the liquid metal layer and you'd be getting to the point that it is too dense to go any further.

Question: How is the Michelson-Morley experiment evidence for the constancy of the speed of light?
Answer: First you need to know about what was called aether. In the past, people thought light were waves through something called aether, that sourrounds us all similar to air, but only that it exists everywhere.  

Now since the Earth is rotating around the sun(and our solar system is moving, too), we must be moving through the aether somehow. That means that, when we send out light waves in the right direction(with or against or movement inside the aether), the light waves would be stretched or compressed(similar to the doppler-effect with sound). 

The Michelson-Morley experiment measured it, by having two light beams from the same source travel in a 90° shifted path, then go back and merge again. Then the merged beam was checked for it's interference pattern, which is based on how long the two beams traveled independently. That whole experiment was made on a rotating table, so the "direction" of the beams could be changed. 

The core message is, if there would be an aether that the light traveled through, rotating the table would result in the interference changing, since we change the way the light beams travel relative to the aether. But it didn't, which means there can't be aether.

That means that lightspeed is not spreading in a medium(aether), but is spreading through empty space itself, always with constant light speed(= c) to whoever is measuring it. 

What is curious about this is, that if you travel with say 0.5 times lightspeed(= 0.5c), and turn on the headlight, you would guess that your headlight's lightbeam would travel with 0.5c away from you, but in truth it would do so with lightspeed(atleast for your point of view,for more detail see general realitivity) .

Edit: Typos

Question: How could I successfully argue with co workers when they observe near record low temperatures and declare, "global warming doesn't exist."
Answer: The correct term is climate change- it is not about just warming but a shift toward more extreme weather patterns.

Question: Why is the synaptic vesicle not connected to one another?
Answer: >  Would it make any difference if they were connected to each other?

It is useful for a nerve signal to sometimes be triggered and sometimes not. If they were directly connected then you wouldn't really have an action potential to build up and "jump the gap", it would just be always on which sort of defeats the purpose.

Question: How are few companies able to own majority of the brands I use?
Answer: this is end game capitalism.  lets say you have 100 companies all in one area.  some do well, some don't.  the ones that do well might buy out the smaller ones or the smaller ones go out of business.  eventually once they become big enough, they start buying other smaller companies that retain their brand, since customers have brand loyalty.  eventually after a while, you'll get what you described.

Question: Why do large companies sign a 10-20 year building lease when that comes close or exceeds the building value?
Answer: Often it's a cash-flow decision.  Purchasing the building outright costs a lot of upfront money (which either has to come from assets or from a loan... which is basically like a lease but with more terms and conditions) and adds uncertainty to the end of the 10-20 year time frame if the company wants to move somewhere else.  They would either be stuck with a building they didn't want, or have to sell at a price they can't predict.

Signing a lease for the building locks in a yearly rate for their office space that they can count on and plan their long-term books around without worrying about risks associated with the property.

Question: What exactly do courtroom artists do, and why are they a part of some trials?
Answer: Especially in high profile cases people want to know what's going on. Nowadays if become more common to televise events. But before this was the case Judges often banned media like pictures and video in thier courts. So courtroom artists would sketch parts of the precedings for newspapers to use.

Question: Why Aren't Third Party Candidates Allowed to Debate?
Answer: Right now, the debates are only for candidates of a certain party. When the parties have nominated their candidates, third party candidates would be able to debate if they polled high enough.

Question: How do floors get mopped, garbage cans get emptied, plumbing get repaired etc. in top secret areas? Are there janitors with high level security clearance?
Answer: Areas like that have "clean desk" policies where everything has to be secured in locked drawers when you are not at your desk.  If it is somewhere with constant activities then the people there take their trash to somewhere outside the room where it gets collected.

Question: Why do objects at a distance look so much further away in photos?
Answer: You used a relative wide angle lens. It has a wider field of view than your eyes so things appear farther away. You could use a more "normal" focal length (~50mm) to make things appear as you see them, or a longer lens to make things appear closer.

Question: what does it mean to label China as a "currency manipulator"?
Answer: There currency exchange rate is set by the government. They set it so you can buy a lot of yuan for your dollar. This makes their exports cheap since when you buy their exports you pay in yuan and if you have dollars you have to exchange  dollars for yuan and you'll get a lot of yuan for the exchange and so you can buy a lot of chinese crap that will end up in alandfill.

Question: Separate Facebook Message App - Why the mandatory breakout separation?
Answer: It solves the problem of having to deal with a large amount of code. Something the size of the Facebook app requires a large number of programmers to maintain, and programming gets harder the more people you have to add to a project (there's a book called The Mythical Man-Month that goes into this in depth). Having multiple smaller projects allows them to improve both products faster.

Question: What is a Fibonacci Sequence?
Answer: A sequence of numbers, starting with 0, 1 where every subsequent number is the sum of the two previous numbers. 


0

1

0+1=1

1+1=2

2+1=3

3+2=5

5+3=8

8+5=13

and so on.

Hence, the Fibonacci sequence starts 1,1,2,3,5,8,13...

Edit: realised 5+8 != 11. I'm an idiot.

Question: Computer data storage.
Answer: The sort of storage that stays valid after losing electrical power is called "non-volatile storage".  That means things like hard drives, CD-ROMs and flash drives.  Storage that requires electricity to maintain data is called "volatile storage" and is computer memory, or RAM.

Hard drives maintain data because a hard drive is like a series of little magnets.  Magnetic polarity can either be "north" or "south" and this polarity is maintained without the need for electrical current.

CD-ROMs maintain data by writing a series of dark and light coloured areas that can be read by a laser.

Flash drives work by having individual cells that are left with an electrical charge by depositing extra electrons (and thus negative charge) that is maintained even after power is removed.  It's almost like a tiny series of microscopic batteries that is either set positive/negative or negative/positive.

This is obviously a gross oversimplification.  For some of the gory details as to why hard drive encoding isn't just as simple as "north = 1, south = 0", _URL_0_ is pretty interesting.  It's very technical and fairly heady stuff.

Question: What is a modal auxiliary verb? (explain for a foreigner)
Answer: This isn't technically correct, but think of them as modifying the subject with a potential action.

Question: How do investors pick franchises and are they preferable to starting a business on your own?
Answer: Investors pick franchises based on what they think will be the best fit for where they want to operate their business. Several things come into play, such as the cost of the franchise, the amount of support they get for that money, the appeal of the product in that market, and how much competition there is for that product in that market.

And buying a franchise *is* starting your own business. But the difference is that you get a brand name that's (at least somewhat) established, a product line, training and other manuals, and often regional and national advertising.

Question: Why is it that some people can learn equations and concepts when examples are involved ie: physics/chemistry but struggle with similar ideas when examples aren't involved ie: trig/calc/algebra?
Answer: There have been many theories of learning which categorise people into different groups depending how they learn.

Pretty much all of these theories have been disproven.

However, one thing that *is* known is that, however hard it is to categorise people, we *do* all learn differently! Some people like to see things written down, others like pictures or prefer to listen to the material they're supposed to learn. Some people can learn abstract things more easily, others can learn better by seeing and understanding examples.

**BUT** - a good teacher knows this, and uses a variety of different techniques during a lesson, to ensure that learners of all types are able to learn the material.

Trigonometry, calculus and algebra are all subjects that can, and should, be taught using examples (although, like all subjects, they shouldn't be taught *only* with examples). If you've been taught these subjects without seeing a single example of a real-life problem where they would be used then unfortunately you have probably suffered from less-than-perfect teaching.

Question: Ethics
Answer: First, I want to say that this is all 'soft' science, so there will be exceptions.

Let's say you gave your friend some advice, and that advice ended up making things worse. You didn't mean them to, they just did. There are two different ways most philosophers and such determine whether that was a good thing to do or not.

Deontological ethics (a big word basically meaning 'the logic of duty') says that because you wanted to help your friend, it was the right thing to do, even if the advice didn't turn out like you hoped. It was your good will that was important.

Consequentialist ethics say that while what you were trying to do was good, because it didn't turn out well, you should be scolded for giving bad advice. Consequentialists think that it's good outcomes that are important.

It's never really that black and white in the real world, but those are the two main ways of going about it, at the moment.

Question: why do I feel sick when I read in a car?
Answer: In order for a person to estimate his location, the brain combines information from a variety of sources, including sight, touch, joint position, the inner ear and its own expectations. The inner ear is particularly important because it contains sensors for both angular motion (the semicircular canals) and linear motion (the otoliths). These sensors are called the vestibular system. Under most circumstances, the senses and expectations all agree. When they disagree, however, conflict arises and motion sickness can occur. 
Consider the situation when one is reading in the back seat of a car. Your eyes, fixed on the book with the peripheral vision seeing the interior of the car, say that you are still. But as the car goes over bumps, turns, or changes its velocity, your ears disagree. This is why motion sickness is common in this situation.

 TL;DR : The reason you get carsick is because your brain is confused. You don't feel like you're moving, and yet all your senses are telling you that you are. In response, you feel disoriented and sick.

Question: When in flight why does the propeller of an airplane look like its moving really slowly?
Answer: This is called aliasing. Basically your eye cannot sample light fast enough to follow the actual speed of the propeller. Instead it samples at a rate, then pieces together the images to produce movement. If the properller spins 1.1 times between images, your brain makes the assumption the propeller moved 0.1 revolutions, and thus sees the propeller moving at 1/11th it's actual speed. If the propeller moves 0.99 revolutions in the sample time, your brain will assume it is spinning backwards at 1/99th the actual speed.

Question: Why does vegetable oil work as a substitute for traditional fuel in a diesel engine?
Answer: Diesel engines work by compression ignition; you add a small amount of hydrocarbon fuel during compression, it eventually combusts and the energy of combustion raises the pressure and drives the piston downwards, producing power. However, this autoignition isn't a magical property unique to diesel fuel; **every** hydrocarbon will autoignite at some temperature, and it just so happens that vegetable oils have similar energy contents, viscosities, and autoignition temperatures to standard ultra-low sulfur diesel.

That being said, you typically want to run the vegetable oil through what's known as a transesterification process to lower the viscosity and make the fuel a little more stable, and help with cold-starting the engine. You add either ethanol or methanol to the oil, along with bases like soda ash or lye to keep the acidity down, and then mix it to produce fatty-acid ethyl/methyl esters (so, FAEE or FAME), along with glycerol that must be removed during processing. The FAEE and FAME products are known more popularly as biodiesel.

Question: Is there any merit to the idea that exposing yourself to germs strengthens your immune system?
Answer: Your immune system, every time it beats off an infection, stores information about that infection in it's "memory B-cells." That way, if you get reinfected, your immune system can say "aha it's you again! I remember your secret weakness from last time!" instead of having to figure it out all over again. 

It doesn't have to be a big infection for it to work; even a small infection will trigger and immune response. So yes, the more germs you are exposed to, the bigger your memory banks will be, and the less likely you are to get a serious infection from any of those germs.

Edit: yes, I did say "beats off"

Question: Why does my skin itch when i've been sweating and touch grass?
Answer: Grass makes very small (near microscopic) cuts on the skin, and when those cuts are contacted with liquid (in your case, sweat) it itches. It's like salt in a wound, but much smaller.

Question: How does my fingerprint scanner on my iPhone work through a plastic bag?
Answer: Because it's not a fingerprint scanner, it's just a camera.  Advanced fingerprint scanners use high resolution CMOS sensors, pressure and temperature sensors, and a myriad of other tricks to detect an actual finger against a simple printout of your print. The scanner on phones and laptops, and other cheap consumer scanners are barely more than a cheap CMOS and a cheap lenses, with some software to do the processing. If the plastic bag is clear, it should work as well. A printout of your fingerprint will most likely work as well.

Question: The reason why NSAIDS are ineffective at reducing symptoms of diseases like Psoriasis?
Answer: Not 100% sure, but I would say that's because Psoriasis is caused when your immune system ins't working properly and the chemicals involved in psoriasis are not affected by NSAIDS (they generally affect the COX enzymes that promote inflammation)

Question: why it always seems like people wake up before the best part or climax of their dreams.
Answer: Until a better answer shows up, I believe I've read on this very forum, that it has to do with the fact that the "best part" just so happens to excite you so much, that your brain activity increases and you therefore begin to awaken.

Another aspect may be that you don't remember dreams in which you didn't wake up during the middle of them. However when you do wake up during a dream you are more likely to remember it. So you don't always wake up before the best part, you just don't remember the dream at all.

Question: How does bracing reduce the impact during a crash?
Answer: It doesn't reduce the impact, but it gives you some warning that an impact is coming and allows you to protect your vital parts (neck, head, etc.). While there have been cases where asleep/unconscious people have survived impacts that have killed others, there is often more to those stories than initially presented. Case in point: old coworker of mine had a daughter that was curled up in the passenger seat. The boyfriend fell asleep at the wheel and survived the crash while the girlfriend/daughter was killed. What gives? Well, the driver was still wearing his seat belt and the girl wasn't. He was protected by the airbag and other safety features, and she was ejected into a rock face. 

Additionally, we often see stories where drunk drivers survive horrific crashes that kill families, but if you read into the cases you discover that perhaps the drunk driver t-boned the victims, which would maximize his protection (seat belt, airbags, head rest, etc.), and minimize their protection (no side airbags, seat belts are mostly designed for front/back collisions, so side-on collisions can cause more next damage, etc.

Question: How can someone be immune to the laws of a country simply because they have diplomatic immunity?
Answer: Because the country that they represent have been extended that courtesy for their diplomats by the host country. It's a common arrangement so that diplomats don't get blackmailed by local police or politicians. 

The host country can always expel a diplomat if they don't want them there. And the diplomats country can waive immunity if they think the diplomat should be tried for a crime. 

But it really doesn't cause many problems. It's a popular movie trope,  but in the real world it's mostly used to get out of parking tickets.

Question: Why do the creatures at the deepest parts of the ocean look so different from that species we normally see?
Answer: A huge pressure. For anything to be able to withstand it you need either incredible skeletal structure, or massive skin and muscle mass. The former is almost non-existent, if it exist it's mostly in small organisms such as crabs, etc..., the latter is more common. Remember [this](_URL_0_) guy this is how he looks when he is not under extreme atmospheric pressure. [This](_URL_1_) is how he looks in his natural habitat

Furthermore deep sea is dark and cold. Creature who live there doesn't need eyes, or really any other sensory abilities. They need better to regulate body temperatuer, they need a structure that works under extreme pressure. Coincidentaly that looks extremly alien to us.

Question: Why laptops still use differrent chargers, and why they dont follow the example of the mobile phones?
Answer: $$$$$$$$$$$

Same reason apple uses its own cords. You have to buy them from the company that makes the laptop.

Question: How does Google Maps know when there's little, medium or high traffic on roads?
Answer: I don't know if you noticed, but Google figures out pretty quickly where you live and where you work: that's because it activates the GPS on your phone in the background and registers your location quite frequently.

If you are driving, Google can interpret the GPS location of your phone as an indication of no traffic (phone moves at speed close or past the speed limit for that road), light traffic (phone moves at reduced speed) or high traffic (phone doesn't move at all for prolonged periods of time). Using the data from many phones, the results are pretty reliable.

The algorithm uses traffic status when selecting a route to try to reroute the incoming cars to other roads in which the traffic situation is better, both to help you get to where you're going faster and to help clear the traffic jam by not feeding it with other cars.

Question: Why do my devices need an IP address if they all have a unique MAC-address?
Answer: Because a MAC address says *who* you are, but not *where* you are.

When I say "who" I don't literally mean it identifies you of course, it identifies a particular piece of equipment. But the IP address really does identify where that piece of equipment is located in a sort of physical sense.

IP addresses are structured so that routers know which connection they need to pass the message through so it gets closer to its intended recipient.

A MAC address doesn't tell you that until you are close enough that it can simply store a mapping between IP address and MAC address. Which is what a network switch does (your home router is really a very simple router and a switch built into one).

MAC addresses aren't transmitted across the wider internet. They're only known by your local network. This means that not everything connected to the Internet needs to have a MAC address of the same form. Not every network uses ethernet or related standards, so they don't necessarily have a compatible addressing scheme. But that's fine, because IP works on top of ethernet, wifi, cellular networks, etc. You can send IP messages to any network connected to the Internet regardless of what networking technology it uses internally.

Question: Why and how are power plants designed so they can't power themselves?
Answer: The plant isn’t technically incapable of powering itself—it’s incapable of running without a grid connection.

That might sound like a distinction without a difference, but the plant requires a connection to the grid not to *receive* power from the grid, but to *dispose* of power on the grid.

The nuclear plant requires a fraction of a percent of its own power to run. It simply cannot throttle down that low. Without a million kettles eating 99% of its output, it must shut down. If it kept running, the excess electrical power has to go *somewhere*, and without the grid as a safe outlet, the generators would destroy themselves.

Shutting down the reactors and turbines is generally generally okay, because it has back‐up diesel generators to power the cooling systems and whatnot, but then the generator room floods and you’re in trouble.

Question: If Physics states that we don't actually touch anything, how can we taste and smell?
Answer: We don't really touch things, but that doesn't mean they don't interact. Magnets, gravity, electrical charges all do not physically touch things, but they interact because of the force emanating from them.

Question: How did people figure out precisely which direction to build a railway in before GPS and modern technology?
Answer: You'd be surprised how accurate tools like sextants are. They were around for a while before we started building railroads.

Question: What allows our brain to "focus"?
Answer: The brain has a subconscious filtering system that decides which things are unimportant and which should be passed on to our conscious mind.

Question: why does resting my hand between my thighs warm me up?
Answer: You have a lot of nerve endings that control your hands.  Perhaps warming them *tricks* your brain into thinking you are more warm than before.

Check out this [homunculus](_URL_0_) to see the brain proportion that is dedicated to controlling certain body parts.  As you can see, lips and hands require a lot of nerves and brain to control them (and to feel sensation from them).

Question: How come some vitamins (like D3) are sold in amounts that provide much more than the decided daily value (500% for example)? Isn't this unnecessary because excess nutrients are removed in urine? Wouldn't this be a disadvantage to the consumer and result in a higher cost?
Answer: Often times, vitamin supplements are sold in much larger doses than necessary because consumers falsely believe that more is better. They purchase the higher dose of water soluble vitamins because they don't realize that the excess just gets peed out.

Question: What makes a substance nutritious?
Answer: A subtstance is nutricious when we can extract energy from it. That substance can be carbohydrates (sugars), fats, and amino acids from proteins. The body modifies these substances into one of the products that can be used in the so-called Krebs cycle. The Krebs cycle is a series of chemical reactions that releases stored energy from those substances in the cells. The end product is CO2 (a waste product that you exhale) and adenosine *triphoshate* (ATP), an adenosine molecule with three phosphate groups attached to it. ATP is the transporter of energy in the human body. When ATP breaks down in an adenosine molecule with two phosphate groups (ADP) and a free phosphate group, energy is released which can be used for metabolic processes in the body such as muscle contraction.

Question: what is the difference between vague, ambiguous (semantic), ambiguous (syntactic), ambiguous (grouping), overgeneral, or both vague and overgeneral.
Answer: Kind of confused about what you're asking for. Is it assignment-specific jargon?

The difference between 'vague' and 'ambiguous':

Vague - Lacking detail but has specific meaning.

e.g. Joe is tall.

How tall? Joe is tall compared to what?

Ambiguous - Several meanings or open to interpretation.

e.g. The concert was cool.

Does the speaker mean that the concert was enjoyable or do they mean something to do with the temperature?

Question: what is magnetic flux?
Answer: Say you have 100 water hoses stacked in a square and pointed at a house. The window is open. On the hoses hit the window go in the house, the rest just hit the wall.

Magnetic flux is when you take the magnetic field and multiply it by the area of a given thing, say a hoop. The magnetic field is like the water hoses. The area is like the open window. The magnetic flux is like the bit of water that gets into the house through the window.

Now pretend that you are shooting the water at the house at an angle. Or you lifted the house and turned it at an angle. Less water will get into the house because the open area of the window that can be shot at by the hose is smaller. If you turn the house completely sideways, the water can't go into the house at all because you are shooting at the wrong side now.

In the same way, if you turn a hoop on it's side, less open area is available for the magnetic field to go through. If you turn it comepletely sideways to the magnetic field, none of the magnetic field can get through.

The equation is BAcos(angle)=magnetic flux. B is the magnetic field. A is the area. The angle is how turned the hoop or house is (0 degrees means it's head on, and 90 degrees means its turned completely sideways, and the numbers in between mean that it is partially turned.) Cos(angle) is what percentage of the water gets into the house from the hoses that would normally shoot water in if the house was head on.

Question: why isn't single serve coffee sold in tea bags?
Answer: Didn’t Folgers used to make “coffee singles” in the past? I’m not sure if it was instant or supposed to act like a brew, but I’m almost positive I’ve seen something like it.

Question: Why can we build 1TB SSD's but not 1TB of RAM and cut out the storage?
Answer: We can make a terabyte of RAM but it would be really expensive and couldn't store data when the computer was off. Also we really don't need the incredibly fast access for the vast majority of that data.

Question: Does a gas giant actually have a solid surface?
Answer: The "surface" of Jupiter is gaseous hydrogen.
_URL_0_

What would happen if you went "on" the top of Earth's gaseous atmosphere? You'd fall, right?

Jupiter is much more massive than Earth though, so you'd fall even faster, and probably burn up from friction with the atmosphere before anything more interesting happened (like getting to the level of metallic liquid hydrogen below).

Question: Where do birds keep their bone marrow?
Answer: According to our friends over at /r/askscience:

 >  Birds have bone marrow it just doesn't intersperse through the central region of bones like in humans. Avian bones aren't hollow in the sense that they're like straws with absolutely nothing inside them. There are networks of structural fibers that help give their bones strength. Bone marrow is likewise interspersed and around the hollow cavities in a bird's bones.

They also linked to [this image](_URL_1_) showing a cross-section of a bird's bone.

[Source](_URL_0_)

Question: How does evolution explain an animal developing the ability of venom attacks? Like a Platypus?
Answer: As [this](_URL_0_) link will tell you, many venom systems started out as something entirely different whether they be digestive enzymes, proteins to help fight bacteria, etc. A mutation occurs and suddenly that enzyme/protein/etc is present in the mouth/claws/etc, and it gives them an edge to catch prey and just generally survive. Each instance of venom in an animal seems to have developed on its own, so you aren't going to find two for the exact same reason. We are still learning about the subject though.

Question: Why are games being exclusive to a particular console "bad" and why is this exclusivity deal Netflix has secured "good" ?
Answer: You're currently comparing two things in different ways. I understand the confusion but you're just getting it a little bit twisted. I'm not a gamer, but here goes my attempt at an explanation. 

1. A game being only available on ONE platform is bad for the game due to the fact by only being on one console, the potential market share is now cut in half. A show/movie being only on one platform is bad for the show/movie because anyone who doesn't have that medium of streaming is now unable to enjoy that content. 
2. A game like HALO is GREAT for a console. If Halo hadn't of come out when it did I don't think the original XBOX would have survived. People who are loyal to a game franchise will probably buy that console just to continue playing those games. A company like Disney signing an exclusivity deal with Netflix is GREAT for Netflix. People who love disney/star wars will go with Netflix as their main streaming provider for the ability to view that specific content.

Question: Why is there a large build up of dust on fan and air vent covers when there is air being blown over them often to displace dust from settling?
Answer: So lets start off with two things that may not be obvious:

1) Although the air looks clear and clean, its not.  The air you're breathing is actually filled with water and dust, you just can't see it because there is substantially more air than water/dust, and the water/dust particles are extremely tiny.

2) Although your fan blade appears to smooth, its actually not - at least not at a microscopic level.  If you looked at most fan blades under a microscope you'd see that at that scale they are actually pretty rough - it would look somewhat like a sponge with tons of small pits and holes.

So with that out of the way, lets talk about how a fan pushes air.  

As the fan spins, the blades get forced against the air, compressing it.  But air doesn't like to be compressed, so it tries to expand back to its original size.  The fan blade is designed so that the only way that this compressed air can expand is to move away from the blade, creating a breeze of air moving away from the fan.

But like I said earlier, the air itself is filled with water and dust.  When the fan compresses the air, it squeezes some of that water and dust out.  The water and dust that has been squeezed out of the air form a type of cement, which then impacts the fan blade and cements itself into those microscopic pits and holes that the surface of the blade is covered with.  This newly cemented dust on the blade creates a new surface for even more dust to cement to, steadily growing over time.

Because all of this dust is microscopic, you can't see the process happening.  All you can see is the visible mass of dust, which is the result of that microscopic dust slowly accumulating over a very long period of time.

But you are correct in that the movement of the fan does cause some of that dust to break off.  As those dust particles break off, they get flung at high speed into the case of the fan, causing dust to form there as well.

The ratio of dust on the blades to dust on the case that you end up with depends on how fast the fan is spinning and how smooth the fan blade is.  Faster, smoother fans will produce more dust on the case while slower, coarser fans will produce more dust on the blades.

Question: Why is gold valuable? For how long will it continue to be valuable?
Answer: Gold is valuable primarily because people believe that it is valuable. (It does have some practical uses in jewelry and electronics, but these things aren't nearly enough to support its current price).

It will probably continue to be valuable, because gold being valuable is a significant part of our cultural identity. The question is whether or not gold will continue to be *as* valuable as it currently is. This is unlikely; eventually, the price is going to stop rising. Investing in gold is just betting that the price will rise enough before you cash in.

e: I didn't answer "would it be smart to invest", and there's a good reason for that; any advice would necessarily be wrong. Remember, the price of gold is entirely dependent on what everyone thinks the price of gold ought to be. So if everyone knew that the price would drop when X, they would start trying to leave the market before X, and that itself would make the price drop.

Question: What gives massless particles a 'speed limit'? What stops them from traveling faster than 299,792,458 m / s?
Answer: Simply put, we don't know. It's a very well documented and solid physical constant, but why that happens to be the universal speed limit isn't clear. There's some speculation and models that attempt to describe it, but nothing verifiable as of yet.

Question: Why can I remember the conventions of a new programming language or the methods of a new library with ease but spend hours memorizing facts in biology class to no avail?
Answer: As a fellow student learning programming with ease and dying in biology, I feel your pain.

I can't possibly explain for you without speculating, but for me it's because of the style. Biology is a very fact-oriented thing. You either know what allopatric means, or you don't. And you never get to actually use it, because you can't "use" biology terms. It's a field of science, not of engineering.

For CS, you already know what these words mean, you're just learning new ways to apply them. It's about learning processes, not facts. And you use these processes constantly. Computer Science is a field of engineering, not science.

Also, like RandomReddithead said, interest is incredibly important. And the method of learning is a pretty big deal.

Question: Why is the DEA so concerned about narcotics, barbiturates etc?
Answer: >  But why does the DEA care in the first place if people die from narcotics?

Because they are the agency put in charge of regulating and controlling such things. It is like asking why the Department of Transportation is so enthusiastic about roads and stuff, like they are some sort of weirdos.

So why does the government in general care about drug abuse and deaths? One reason is because it has significant social impacts to have drug abuse in a community. Drug addicts are often poor workers and generally unstable, along with being a source of crime not directly connected to the drugs themselves. For example if someone is addicted to crack they probably aren't able to hold a steady job for long, and once they lose that income they will often turn to crime to fund their habit.

Another issue is that drugs which have dangerous side effects can tax public health services. If the hospitals are spending a bunch of money helping people ODing on heroin that they never get back, they aren't as effective as they might otherwise be.

And of course there is the initial Puritanical opposition to drugs or anything that alters conciousness which creates a prejudice against drug use.

Question: Allergies; and why the body develops them.
Answer: Your body's immune system often causes your body to do less-than-desirable things. For example, when it's fighting a cold, it's your immune system, not the cold virus, which causes you to have a runny nose and sneeze lots.

When something gets into your body which doesn't belong there, your body's immune system recognises that and gets rid of it. This doesn't just apply to viruses and other nasties. It can apply to things like pollen, or dog hair.

When you have an allergy, what that means is that there are certain types of foreign bodies which your immune system over-reacts to - it doesn't just get rid of them, but it causes you to display some symptoms, such as sneezing, developing a rash, or being short of breath.

Question: how did they have an apartheid in south africa since most the people living there are black? (sorry if dumb question)
Answer: Apartheid was run by the white minority to keep control of the black majority. The laws were phrased as though it was some kind of "separate but equal" system but in reality it was incredibly discriminatory and frequently brutal (not too dissimilar to segregation in the American south).

In theory, the system was meant to create various kingdoms where each tribe/racial group would have their own autonomy. In reality all the bits that were useful or valuable were kept under white control and the "autonomous" tribal kingdoms were puppet states and used as a tool to remove political rights from black people.

The whites were able to impose this system because they were by far the wealthiest group and they inherited political control from the previous British rulers.

Also they weren't a tiny minority. White South Africans make up a significant group in the diverse society of South Africa. Plus it wasn't just "whites vs blacks" but a much more complex system where the black population identified as being part of various tribes, and also with a large population of other races (there were/are a large number of South Africans of Indian descent who were a kind of second rung under the whites in the system).

This allowed the white minority to rule through a "divide and conquer" methodology for a while until the opposition forces managed to organize.

Question: Humans mated with Neanderthals and have some Neanderthal DNA.What prevented their mating with other archaic human types?
Answer: It may have happened. It is hard to prove. DNA degrades with time. Only in special circumstances, cold dry caves, does some DNA survive for thousands of years.

To prove it you must have DNA from the different humans to have lasted since then. It is extremely unlikely to find DNA much older than what has been found. Jurassic Park was only a movie with a slightly plausible story line.

There has been a lot of study of the human genome with a lot of fascinating, (to some) deductions about the past.

Question: why does Adobe Flash Player need to update so much?
Answer: Adobe (Originally, Macromedia) Flash is, by Internet standards, a very old format. It comes from the days where every byte and every CPU cycle was very important. This meant that it used various tricks to save space and computer effort.

The programming to work with these tricks is complex, and complex programs have places for bugs to hide, and hide they do. There are bugs that have always been there, waiting for someone to send the program a strange flash file and make it do something wrong. There are bugs caused when modern programmers forget they are working with old code, and are not 'defensive' enough, assuming that the code will do checks that were too (computer-effort wise) expensive decades ago.

There really is only one solution for this - flash has got to go. There is no longer a need for it, as javascript and HTML5 can do everything that Flash does. We just need everyone who makes websites to delete all their flash garbage.

Question: Is it better to brace your body or stay loose in an accident/fall?
Answer: Obviously every crash is different and some things will work better in one situation than they would in another, but the brace position in an aircraft crash, or bracing against a car seat have a very specific purpose.

In any collision there are multiple impacts.  In an aircraft crash there is the impact of the plane hitting the ground, you hitting the inside of the plane (seat, floor, controls, whatever the object is), and your internal organs (biggest concern being the brain) hitting the inside of your body.

The brace position is an attempt to remove, or at least lessen, the second of those impacts: you hitting the inside of the plane.  By placing your body against the seat in front of you, or against your legs (depending on the position used) you are already against the object you are likely to hit and will therefore push against it instead of impacting it.

Question: Why can e-cigarette companies advertise on TV while traditional cigarette companies can't?
Answer: E-cigarettes don't have tobacco in them, they're a smoking accessory. It's like advertising a cigarette lighter

Question: Why I can't look in different directions with my eyes.
Answer: You can.

Back in 2006 while doing "How to [cross](_URL_1_) just One Eye" and "Speak with an Echo," I got ambitious and tried inducing [MartyFeldman-o-vision](_URL_0_).  I had some fresnel prisms left from a failed toy design[1] which only deflect a couple degrees.  Mount on eyeglass frames to bend light inward.  They gave double vision, but I couldn't fuse stereo images.  So I took one out.  Success!  After a few minutes (w/pain) my eyes compensated.

I wore these glasses for about half an hour, then whipped them off while in front of a mirror.  I could barely see the "walleye" effect.  And my eyes returned to normal within seconds.

Now try to teach yourself to aim one eye upwards, other one down.  Or dilate just one pupil while contracting the other.  Use it to fake brain damage.

.

[1]failed toy design: fresnel-prism glasses which make you feel tall by bending light vertically.  They sorta work.  More like, make gravity tilt backwards.

Question: Why does western society treat sex as something taboo?
Answer: This isn't really a concept question. Europe and America both "western societies" have different views on sex and display of it. US views on sex is still largely influenced by our Quaker and Puritan heritage. 

Your question needs some clarification and best for perhaps r/askhistorians

Question: what actually is that feeling when you're falling in a dream and you wake up?
Answer: The falling feeling is from a hypnic jerk. Your muscles may twitch or spasm and your mind is trying to make sense of it. You think that you're falling. I believe the heart beating and the shortness of breath is an emotional response. It's kinda not really clear why this happens. 

Even though you are sleeping, there is a part of you that is monitoring your situation. It's like sometimes hearing your alarm clock radio in your dreams. 

On wiki: _URL_0_
It says that a possible explanation is that it is a reflex we developed when humans slept in trees.

Question: Why is it more quiet when it's snowing?
Answer: Many things at once make this happen:

1) Snow on the ground absorbs the noise around us, where as the hard surface of the roads bounce it off. Just like a room with carpet and curtains does not echo, but an empty room with floorboards does echo. Absorbing the noise makes it quieter.

2) Snow is soft and makes sounds quieter -  walking in soft snow is quieter than shoe heels clipping on pavement.

3) More people stay inside and less people drive, so less traffic noise.

4) People that do drive, drive slower and more carefully, meaning less engine noise.

5) Birds and other animals come out less and make less noise.

Question: what exactly is the purpose of dreaming?
Answer: No one's entirely sure.  Some popular theories:

--it helps us sort through the events of the day and create memories accordingly

--it helps us work through the emotions of the day and reach equilibrium

--dreams don't serve any purpose; they're just a consequence of some other process

These aren't necessarily contradictory theories; for example, maybe dreams don't serve any point, they're just how our sleeping brain interprets the neural activity of our brain sorting through memories.

Question: Why does water feel much colder in your mouth when chewing mint gum?
Answer: The ingredient in mint gum that gives that cooling sensation is called Menthol.

The tongue can not tell the difference between Menthol and actual cold temperatures so that's why they feel the same.

As a side note, capsaicin (the active ingredient in spicy food) is why our mouths feel hot.  Again, because this chemical tricks our tongue into thinking, it's on fire.

Question: NFL followers, why are there so many people on the sideline while the game is being played? What is their role? Novice at NFL here.
Answer: Media people, cameramen, sound people, the other 80odd players not on the field, the coaching staff, the athletic trainer staff, the medical team, NFL officiating crew, security...

Add it all up and you usually have several hundred people on the sideline of a typical NFL game.

It takes a lot of people to make that kind of televised spectacle happen.

Question: Why Won’t Obama Rein in the N.S.A.?
Answer: Because Obama doesn't really care about libertarian neckbeards over the internet getting butthurt.

Question: What's the significance and possible implications of all these nations joining this new China-led bank? (akin to the World Bank)
Answer: It means, in a basic sense, that nations will be able to go to an Eastern-led development bank instead of Western banks such as the World Bank and IMF (as you mentioned). Since countries usually agree to certain development terms when they receive loans from these places, the issuer of the loan gains control over the development process to a certain extent. Furthermore, since these banks are Western the development parameters will be much more Western-friendly, such as free trade with the US and EU, or growth in a market that would benefit the West. 

A Chinese/Eastern development bank would give an alternative to the Western approach. Whether it would be good or bad for developing countries is yet to be seen, but I believe competition usually breeds a positive outcome (lower interest rates, less strict requirements on loans). In either case, it would take away some power the West holds over certain developing countries. Also, it gives countries shunned by the West access to large development banks granted the Chinese/East are willing to put up with them (Iran, Venezuela).

Question: Is it possible to become ambidextrous?
Answer: I highly suggest posting this over at /r/askscience to avoid hundreds a meaningless anecdotes being your answer.

Question: how does people you may know function on facebook work? Do people who have visited my profile pop up there?
Answer: Do you have their phone numbers or email addresses and have ever used the feature that allows Facebook to search your contacts for potential friends? If you've done that they will show up in your recommended friends. Sometimes it seems to be so sensitive as to suggest someone who I have only contacted once.

Question: How did some animals (lizards etc.) get an ability to regenerate limbs evolutionary?
Answer: All species have the capacity for regeneration, some to a higher extent than others. 

What you are referring to is called autonomy (self amputation) and in most cases it was developed as a defence mechanism that allowed an animal to escape by sacrificing a limb and then regrow a substitute one (albeit imperfect one in most cases, as they can and do regrow differently to the natural ones, e.g. Deformed in some way).

A good example of this are certain lizards that will leave a part of their tail as a decoy (it will continue moving after becoming detached) to flee from a predator. The tail will grow back, however it will not have the same bone structure as the original one as it will be mostly replaced by cartilage. 

Edit: a very good example of this in humans is liver regeneration. A human liver will regenerate back to its original size even if 80% of it is removed.

Question: The difference between Whiskey, Scotch and Bourbon.
Answer: Whisky is a type of alcohol, made of fermented grain mash (more on that in a second). It's distilled and aged in casks for years, usually it's made very clear how many years it's been aged and the difference between a bottle of 7-year and 10-year can be quite pronounced, as can the price. It's important to note the two different ways of spelling it if we're talking about the differences.

"Whisky" is the preferred spelling of much of the world (including Scotland).

"Whiskey" is the Irish and American spelling of the word.

The reason that's important is because there are three main markets for the production of whisky: Scotland, Ireland and America. Japan is a new contender too but a very good one, and the latest whisky of the year winner was an unheard of New Zealand distillery, but they're the big three still.

Possibly the biggest difference in the taste is due to what's used in the mash. Barley, rye, and corn are the common grains used. 

Whisky produced in Scotland is called scotch, if not simply "whisky." The mash they use is usually malted barley. Legally it has to be if they call it "single malt," but that's not a law in other countries (for the record, a "blended malt" is just several single malts from different distilleries mixed together essentially). Scotch distilleries often use peat during the process which gives it a strong, rough, earthy taste (which is why pop culture has it as a very manly drink for manly men). There are massive numbers of scottish distilleries with long histories, it's treated as a real artform.

Whisky produced in much of America is called bourbon, though sometimes it's simply called whiskey. There are specific legal requirements it must meet to be allowed to be called bourbon, including that the mash has to be made largely from corn, giving it a rather distinct taste compared to other whiskeys.

Whisky produced in Ireland is called whiskey. It's usually distilled three times and tends to be much smoother than scotch as they don't use any peat. It used to be the most popular type of alcohol in the world, though it's now a tiny market share, but the remaining distilleries have a hell of a lot of lineage and experience behind them.

Edited to add: /r/scotch is full of smartypants who will be able to take any further questions you have to the next level too!

Question: Why is ridesharing, like Uber and Lyft, illegal in some places (specifically Philadelphia).
Answer: Taxi services have a number of regulations that they have to abide by, and this causes them to charge more for the same service of getting you from point A to point B. These greater costs and increased operational rigidity lead to poorer service. However, they could absolutely offer better services, and should have to in order to stay competitive. More on this later.

In comes ride sharing services like Uber or Lyft. While they operate differently, and work under different names they are at heart a taxi service. They exist to allow you to hire a car to get you from point A to point B.

To put this in terms of your grocery store analogy; the old local grocery store is following all the health codes passed in your city, while the new store is calling itself a "trading ground," and intentionally ignoring all of those health regulations because it's not a "grocery store."

Many ride sharing services operate under the assumption that they aren't taxi services, and as such, they don't have to follow the same rules that Taxi services do. Because they assume that they don't have to follow these laws, they just don't follow them, allowing for better, cheaper services. I'd be happy to expand on these rules if you want.

So now we come to the crux of the issue. Lawmakers in each city, or each state, have to come to a decision. If Uber or Lyft are Taxi services, they are effectively operating illegally, and the laws need updated to include them going forward. If they aren't Taxi services, then new laws need to be written to encompass them. They cannot go unregulated, one way or another.

Each city is tackling this differently. Austin, TX passed new laws governing just ride sharing companies, and Uber pulled out of the city, refusing to do bus there. It sounds like the city of Philadelphia took a "wait and see" approach. They allowed the services to operate temporarily while they come up with new regulations to govern ride sharing, either as a Taxi service or as a new service all together.

Side note. The insurance thing is about the driver and his/her vehicle, not you. Most people's car insurance does not cover commercial activities. Delivery drivers, company cars, and Taxis all require commercial vehicle insurance, which is more expensive. 

If you drive for Uber, and don't have this insurance, you might be in violation of the terms of your regular insurance policy. If you get into a wreck, especially while driving a customer around, your insurance can drop you and refuse to cover the damage caused in the wreck. Uber has, in the past, neglected to mention this to their drivers, meaning that they've got a bunch of effectively uninsured drivers working for them.

Question: Why, for some stereo speakers, does one stereo cut out before the other one when adjusting the volume to a very low setting?
Answer: Because the device is probably using a stereo potentiometer.  One of the quality differences between cheap and non-cheap multi-channel potentiometers is how accurate the tracking is on the two channels.

Question: Why do marathon runners tape their nipples?
Answer: They chafe against your shirt,  they can even bleed. I didnt really take that seriously until I ran my first half marathon. It is a thing.

Question: Why do our voices sound robotic when we speak into the fan?
Answer: Because the fan blades reflect the sound back at you, like any hard surface will. The difference is the fan has gaps in it that are are whizzing past. So you're getting hard surface, gap, hard surface, gap and so on many times a second, and your voice gets reflected back with a similar on/off/on/off pattern. Your voice as a result gains a weird sort of metallic trill to it.

Question: Minneapolis and St. Paul are two major cities of small land areas in the same state that border each other. Is there any good reason they can't combine like the New York Boroughs did in 1898?
Answer: No. There is no practical reason why they cannot combine. If you watch "Gangs of New York," you can see practical reasons why combining police forces and having uniform laws are a plus. Then again many urban areas have separate governments separated by bodies of water.

State government has a lot to do with the decision to do this. State laws regulate a lot of things. A state legislature can make combining an advantage or a disadvantage.

Question: What actually prevents something from continuing to grow once matured and does any species max growth increase over the generations?
Answer: Genes usually stop growth when a pre-determined structure has completely formed. That is called determinate growth.

Indeterminate growth means that the animal will grow all throughout its life, this is common with fish, mollusks (squids) and reptiles.

Question: Why did Walgreens end its partnership with Express Scripts?
Answer: Because they wanted to raise prices, while Express Scripts said no.

Question: Why is Broadway and musical theater in general associated with homosexuals?
Answer: I think that a lot of the aspects of theater in general (the elaborate costumes, the makeup, the dancing) are socially viewed as feminine, adding a sort of femininity to male actors/ theater professionals. Also, it may have been influenced by Castratos (eunuchs _URL_0_) in classical opera/other classical performance settings but that's 100% speculation.

Question: In America, why are most street signs green while others are blue?
Answer: It depends on the type of sign, and, in some cases, the specific sign. [Here](_URL_0_) is an overview of the different colors, while [here](_URL_1_) has specific signs that make for good examples. Specifically, green is "used as background color for guide and information signs, and for legend on permissive regulation and parking signs" and blue is "used as background color for traveler services information signs, emergency evacuation route signs, and as part of interstate and some state route markers".

Question: Why are ambulances at least in the US part of an outside company rather than owned by the hospital?
Answer: It is often more efficient that way.

It costs money for hospitals to maintain a fleet of ambulances, and since their priority is running the hospital, the might not be very good at it.

Let a single company specialize in ambulance service, and letting it serve all the surrounding hospitals eliminates redundancy and can save money for everyone.

Question: What constitutes a "side effect" in contrast to the effect in drugs?
Answer: A side effect is simply something outside the intended purpose of the drug. Even if it happened 100% of the time, it can be considered a side effect. For example, a common allergy drug (diphenhydramine) also has a side effect of making one drowsy. You're buying it to be relieved of allergy symptoms, so the drowsiness is a side effect. But the side effect here is strong enough that the same drug is repackaged and sold as a sleep aid, in which case allergy relief is a side effect.

Question: What is goodwill, and what role does it play in partnership businesses in Accountancy?
Answer: In accounting, we predominantly use something called the double-entry method (Michael Scott contain yourself).

That means that when we spend money developing something, and incur cost, we also want to see it appear as an "asset", something we own - writing down both the cost and the asset are a sense check as we account.

Some things we can pick up or touch - physical assets: property, plant and machinery / equipment. But some we can't: brand value, or perhaps the value of software. These are called intangible assets.

Were we to acquire a company with lots of intangible assets, there would clearly be value in those assets - it's just that we can't really sell them or value them that readily. So we make a new category up, called Goodwill.

Within a partnership, there is a fair amount of that intangible value: the value of what each of the guys brings to the partnership. Consequently, we need to find a way of representing that in the accounts. Generally, we take what we believe to be "sustainable" turnover, i.e. what the business makes in money, and multiply it by a given amount - this is the value of what the partners "bring to the table". As this doesn't really exist, it is classified as goodwill - just like the value of that software etc.

Question: Why are video game prices dropping quickly this year
Answer: It's christmas, and those two games are on everyone's list.  Grandma WILL buy Titanfall for Timmy between now and Dec. 25th, and she only will buy it ONCE.  The only question is from where.  

That means whoever can offer the best price on Titanfall to Grandma WILL get her in the door for at least one purchase.  And while she's there maybe she'll pick up a Bing Crosby Christmas album for the third time.  Or buy the hardware protection plan for those gold-plated Monster HDMI cables.  

Alternatively, it could be good strategically if she buys the game from ME instead of my competitors.  Me  &  Blockbuster both bought 1000 copies of the game for $30/ea.  If I sell it for $35 while my competitor is selling it for $50, I deny them the sale that they were banking on.  Sure I only made $5/unit, but they are still sitting on $30,000 of inventory that won't sell 10% as much for the next several months.  

That means I have $30,000 to spend on Titanfall DLC to sell Timmy in January, while they're still stuck trying sell Timmy a base game he already owns.  

That DLC will make me $15/unit, which means in total I've made $30/customer, which is a net gain over what blockbuster made trying to sell the game at full(ish) price.

Question: Mt. Gox
Answer: This question concerns one of the most frequently asked topics on ELI5, so it has been removed. Try the searchbar!

It's okay to re-post questions, but please indicate that you did a search and that previous questions/answers didn't help you understand.

Question: Why does sand stick to everything even though it doesn't feel sticky?
Answer: Sand sticks to things in many ways just like flour does. Flour particles aren't sticky at all (while dry), but small enough to be caught in tangles of fabric fibers, attracted by even the slightest charges, or "grabbed" by microscopic droplets of water or oil (and the human body is literally covered with oil-drop and water-drop emitting organelles: sweat glands and sebaceous glands). Flour is many times smaller, so more sticks of course, but at the size level of a grain of sand a human body is covered in a rough shag of fibers, and sticky oil and water films.

None of these hold on very tightly, but tight enough to resist gravity and most movement, so the sand doesn't just fall off when you stand up. Brushing the area is more forceful, and tends to knock off every grain of sand hit - but again, sand is so small it can "hide" in the fabric or get missed by a rough hand brushing.

Question: What is the reason for "ancestor worship" in East Asia, and how did this cultural practice come about?
Answer: It's not so much worship, but remembrance, and being thankful for giving birth, and remembering their achievements.  

It's just kind of like say, if your mother died, you would go to her grave (or memorial) and kind of have a moment, remembering the person she was, and in the case of East Asians, laying out a table full of their favorite foods and pouring them a drink (akin to 'pouring one out for the lost homies') so that the ancestors can 'come to eat and receive bows' from his descendants.  

Dunno, I guess East Asians just make the whole remembering the past into a ritual/ceremony of sorts, that involve most of the family on major national holidays. And yes, we do eat the food that we 'serve' to our ancestors, and yes, it's usually really dank stuff we only get to eat on occasion (fall fruits that are delicious, expensive ribs, korean pancakes, ect.).

The difference is, in the west, maybe a family or two come to graves/memorials and just lay down some flowers, shed a tear or pour out a drink, but in East Asia, we have a ceremony of sorts of remembrance, laying out their portraits indoors, or going to their graves and setting up really good food, offering them drink and bows, and having fun with close family that all gathered (uncles, aunts, cousins).

Question: How does swallowing SSRIs or any medication get the chemicals into your brain or other body part where it's required?
Answer: It is the same way food is processed. It is broken down and absorbed by the digestive tract, then distributed throughout your body via your bloodstream. Medications do not target a specific region.

Question: Why do so many celebrities become enamored by/join Scientiology?
Answer: Well, for those people it IS like a celebrity club; it's a relatively exclusive organization, it has vast contacts in the entertainment biz and associated businesses (because they have cultured members and allies and contacts for this purpose) so they also provide **networking** between different kinds of high profile people. It also makes for a handy tax deduction when making donations from their otherwise large salaries. These benefits allow them to attract yet more high profile, wealthy clientele from which to elicit donations.

I'm probably on a list now.

Question: If internet can so easily be overlorded by megacorps, it means the implementation of it was broken from the start. Couldn't we just start a whole new internet that runs on entirely new and open source infrastructure and setup rules that keep it safe or human consumption?
Answer: It's because it's using phone and cable lines that are already attached to peoples' homes.

You need to be a company that has the resources to get data directly to peoples' homes.  And not only that, all of the servers that hold internet content would need to be off of the old system as well, so the millions of servers would have to be connected to this new system.

It's like moving away from gasoline for cars.  Gasoline's big advantage that it has over electric or other resources is that we have an infrastructure already in place on every other street corner to get your fuel.

Imagine if every gas station in the world went away, how long would it take to rebuild all of that infrastructure?  

To be an entity that had the resources to do all of that would make the megacorporations look tiny by comparison.

So in the meantime, the easy way was to declare the internet a common carrier, and make it government regulated.

Question: The Obamacare birth control mandate.
Answer: Put in place by the US government to force health insurance providers/employers to include different methods of birth control on their employees plans at no cost to the employee. It stated that the mandate required all health plans to cover all contraceptives approved by the FDA. It covers pretty well anything you can come up with

Question: When cars are towed, how does the owner know that it was towed rather than stolen?
Answer: Cop here:

A lot of times there will be a sign that tells you what tow company tows from that area.

We do still get a lot of calls about stolen cars that end up being towed, though.

In my state, tow companies are required to submit every car they tow into a database that's searchable by police.

9 times out of 10 when you call 911 to report your car stolen and give the operator your license plate, they'll be able to tell you where your car was towed to.

I've had a handful of cases where a car was towed and didn't get put in the tow file (usually repossessions).  In those cases we'll do a report, the car will be entered into NCIC, and then we'll find out later it was towed and just have to close the case.

Again, this is my state, I can't speak for states that don't have this system.

Question: What is Unraid?
Answer: It’s an operating system you can buy for a computer. Like windows or Mac. But it’s intended for storing files and making them available to other computers on a network at home or in an office. It’s in the category of things we call “NAS” or Network Attached Storage. Unlike your computer, it’s typical for NAS servers to have more than one hard drive. 

It’s called Unraid because most NAS or file serving computers rely on a concept called RAID to prepare for and recover from the failure of one of the hard drives. The goal for most NAS systems is for it to be possible for one drive to fail without causing the server itself to fail. When a drive fails, it can simply be replaced and no data is ever lost in the process.

As I mentioned, RAID is the way most systems do this. Some people feel that RAID is too complicated a technology and prefer a simpler approach. Those people worry that in a RAID system, if one drive fails you can’t simply read the data from the surviving drives: you have to replace the failed drive and allow the RAID technology to rebuild your data from the surviving drives. (These people are reminded that one must back up all file servers, whether they are protected by RAID or not.)

Unraid also provides protection from a scenario when one hard drive fails, but one important difference is that after a drive has failed, whatever data is on the remaining drives can still be read, even if those drives are removed from the system and installed in another computer.

I use Unraid at home to store video files and make them available on my TV, among other things. AMA.

Question: How come steak can be rare but ground beef must be fully cooked
Answer: Steak is relatively dense, so bacteria tend to be on the surface, which you will be subjecting to a lot of direct heat. If you grind the meat up, then you potentially allow any present bacteria to spread throughout the material.

Question: Why is it called the great recession, and not the 2nd great depression? What exactly is the difference?
Answer: It's called the "Great Recession" because although there was a strong recession, meaning a decrease in size of the economy, there was no depression, which is a longer period of stagnation following a recession. What characterized the Great Depression was that it took a long time for conditions to improve, whereas we recovered from the Great Recession quite quickly in America (in an aggregate economic sense--not necessarily every industry or place).

Question: How do unions work? and what do they do?
Answer: Unions work through collective bargaining.  
One of the unstated facts about capitalism is what you are worth.  You are NOT worth the value of your labor.  You are worth what you can NEGOTIATE for your labor.  If a company were to pay you for the VALUE of your labor, the company would not make any profit on it, and would soon not be in business.  So, your employer needs to pay you LESS than the value you provide. 
For the company, the bigger that gap, the better for the company.  More profit.  
For the worker, the SMALLER that gap, the better.  The worker gets more for his labor.  
And that's where the negotiation comes in.  
In a straight company-worker relationship, the negotiating power is tilted heavily towards the company.  The company likely has multiple applicants for a job, so the company can look for the best worker AT THE BEST PRICE (ie, lowest wage for unit of work.)
Some high skill, high demand workers are able to negotiate from a position of strength.  They can demand higher wages, better working conditions, and better benefits because THEY are the ones with multiple job offers.  
But, for the average worker, they can be replaced.  So, while it's not a COMPLETELY powerless position, the worker doesn't have a lot of leverage in negotiations.  After all, the company can (most likely) keep running if a few workers quit.  
Then there are unions.  
Unions are when worker band together to negotiate as ONE GROUP for their labor from the company.  
Unions shift the power of the negotiations between a business and labor.  Now, the company cannot negotiate on a one-on-one basis with each of the workers.  The company negotiates with ALL the (unionized) workers. So, while the company used to be able to pay a few workers more, and threaten other workers with firing, now the workers have the ability to counter.  If the workers feel they are getting a bad deal, they will ALL leave.  
That's a strike.  
It's a bad deal for the company, because the company has to operate with a severely reduced workforce, if they can operate at all.  It's also a bad deal for the workers, because they are not getting paid.  
But, through negotiations, the workers are (usually) able to leverage that better position to higher wages and better conditions and benefits.  This is bad for the company, as their profit margin is reduced.  
It is both good and bad for the workers.  For high-performing workers, their pay may be reduced, as most union contracts mean people will get paid similar amounts.  For the poor workers and for average workers, there is usually a net gain, as their pay is better than it would otherwise be.  
But, because there is now a direct animosity between the workers and the company, there are a number of corrosive effects on the relationship between workers and the company.  For example, 
The union workers may get paid a certain amount, because they may not get bonuses based on performance.  They do not have the incentive to do as good a job.
The company can try to retaliate against those workers who are very pro-union.  
Many union contracts spell out in very precise terms what the workers are and are not allowed to do.  This means that there is an extra level of bureaucracy in the workplace that can slow down production.  Asking a certain worker to do something that is not in their job description may not be allowed under the contract.  
Businesses find it harder to scale up and scale down their labor force to match work requirements.  
Also, because companies are making less profit, they are more susceptible to failing when things go bad.  
On the flip side, 
Unions set the standard wage expectations in the area.  
ALL workers in a heavily unionized community make more money and have better benefits than those in non-unionized areas.  
Since those workers are getting paid more, they have more disposable income, meaning they can BUY more stuff.  As Henry Ford pointed out in 1916, it makes sense for Ford Motor Company to pay its workers enough to be able to AFFORD to buy a car.  
There are LOTS of examples of unions and companies having relationships that are so bad that both suffered.  
But there are ALSO examples of unions and companies working TOGETHER to improve the company, and the union.

Question: - In the first Matrix, Neo asks for guns, how would he get to the other rows of guns?
Answer: >  Are they just for show?

It's a movie, it's all just for show. It looks cooler to have many rows, so that's what they did.

Question: I have heard that the Xbox One and PS4 are like high end gaming PCs. Why do they cost so much less?
Answer: * Bulk discounts:  manufacturers specify one type of component and buy millions of them.
* Consoles also have predictable ordering cycles:  this means you can order parts many months in advance, parts manufacturers love this since they can order raw materials way ahead of time which makes them cheaper.
* Consoles are designed as a complete system:  this means you don't have to make nearly as many components user-serviceable, which adds to cost. (RAM, CPU, GPU all soldered to the motherboard instead of being removeable components.)  Cooling systems are designed for the whole console, so you get better performance with fewer, lower quality parts.
* Interface control:  since they make the console, console manufacturers get to be gatekeepers as to what runs on the console, that means they don't have to test **every** combination of power supply, RAM, processor, graphics card, sound card, webcam, keyboard, and on and on that could potentially cause issues.  Software only has to run at a couple display resolutions instead of every resolution known to man like PCs have to deal with.

Question: how come so many shows on Fox make fun of Fox so much? Why does Fox keep them on the channel? Shows like Simpsons and Family Guy.
Answer: Aside from the fact that the shows are very popular and make the company a lot of money, letting shows like The Simpsons and Family Guy make fun of Fox boosts the company's corporate image. By letting shows poke fun at the company, Fox seems like a "good sport" and like they don't take themselves to seriously (even if they do). 

You'll notice that when these shows make fun of Fox, they often pick on easy targets. For example, there is that one Family Guy joke when Peter lists off all of the "successful" (i.e. unsuccessful and cancelled) Fox shows (Titus, Andy Richter Controls the Universe, etc.) These shows have been cancelled and there really isn't any chance of them coming back. Sure it makes fun of Fox' decision making, but it isn't maliciously attacking the network. 

What you don't see is Family Guy or the Simpsons calling Glenn Beck out as a moron, stating that Bill O'Reilly is an asshole, or claiming that Rupert Murdoch is a corrupt chauvinist. Fox shows poke fun at, but don't openly defame their parent company because without the company, they wouldn't be on TV. It is like making fun of your boss; posting a "Dilbert" comic with the Pointy-Haired Boss on his door is ok, but calling him a fascist is crossing the line.

Question: How do PC games have "bad ports" when the games themselves were made on them?
Answer: Games made for consoles:

* Are using different technologies, so a lot of code has to be rewritten for PC.
* Have fixed hardware that developers can optimize for. On the other side, PCs have a variety of different hardware with different performance, and software can vary too (operating systems, drivers, etc.)
* Have fixed screen resolution and FPS, computer games that have to support many different monitors usually do not.
* Have different controls. For PC version, keyboard+mouse must be added and it often sucks, because developers focus on gamepad (Dark Souls, I'm looking at you).

In addition:

* Many game studios do not care and they outsource ports to cheaper external companies, some of them really suck.
* Ports often have to be done quick and have lower priority then console versions due to different revenues on platforms. But it is an infinite circle, revenues on PC are low because many ports suck.

Question: with glasses, can e.g. watching tv worsen your eyes?
Answer: No. The reason your vision goes bad is because they grow into an incorrect shape. Looking at a television isn't going to cause that to happen, and incorrect glasses are just going to cause eye strain.

Question: Why is it so easy to work yourself into an anxious tizzy, but it isn't as easy to calm down again.
Answer: My guess is that it's evolutionarily advantageous to be more scared and anxious than calm and happy. Fear can motivate you to do something now to save your life. Calming down quickly doesn't appear to benefit humans enough to have been favorably pressured by evolution.

Question: What happens when you reinstall your Windows OS over your computer?
Answer: The only risks you're really running are in deleting files you don't want to delete; re-installing Windows works best when you erase your hard drive and start over from scratch.

Think of it like this: you buy some tropical fish, and every few weeks you scrub the gunk off the inside of the fish tank with a brush. This helps, but once in a while you've got to take the fish out, drain the water, scrub the tank and refill it with clean water before you put the fish back in.

Back to your computer, your best bet is to get a friend who knows this better than you to come spend an afternoon helping. Basically, you're going to (1) move your personal files onto a USB drive, (2) reformat your hard drive, (3) reinstall Windows and all your software like Office and iTunes, and (4) move your personal files from the USB drive back onto the computer.

On Windows computers I do this at least once a year, and the performance increase is usually pretty dramatic.

Question: Why are drinks like coffee and tea gross when they are between luke warm and cold, but delicious when they are hot or iced?
Answer: I actually like the flavor of both at any temperature. It's probably just because I need the caffeine. 

According to [this](_URL_0_) we have certain "channels" in our taste buds that affect the way we perceive flavor at different temperatures. These channels are called TRPM5. 

There was a scientific study done on the topic. Look it up - "Influence of Stimulus Temperature on Orosensory Perception and Variation with Taste Phenotype"

Question: Why do many herbivore's horns point backwards instead of forwards?
Answer: Many herbivores with horns such as those use them to show who the better mate between the males is. Or would be better to lead the pack. It is a show of dominance, but the intent is usually not to kill. You are right, horns facing forward would be better for killing, but that isn't what they are intended for to begin with

Question: What is philosophy?
Answer: Philosophy is asking yourself BIG questions. What is good and evil? Is there a god? What is justice? How do you live a good life? What is the meaning of life? How can we define truth? How can I assume that everything I see is real? Why do we dream?

These are all questions that are very hard or may even be impossible to answer but philosophy does not need the answers. When you think about these questions, you are doing philosophy and it helps you grow as a person and it helps you figure out what life is to YOU.

Question: Why did people lose their retirement funds during the recession? Wasn't it protected or guaranteed?
Answer: Sensible investors didn't lose anything.

The proper way to save for retirement is to automatically rebalance your portfolio as you get closer to retirement age.

Basically there are some investments that grow faster, but can also lose faster in a recession - like stocks.

Then other investments grow more slowly, but they're much safer and don't go down in a recession - like bonds.

Finally there are other investments that tend to have different cycles than the stock market - like real estate and commodities.

A correctly-set-up retirement account will be mostly stocks when you're young (so your account can grow the most) and then converted to mostly bonds by the time you're close to retirement age.

When you hit retirement age, your account should be 100% safe investments like bonds

Unfortunately, millions of people didn't invest this way - so if they had their retirement in stocks they gained more as they approached retirement but then suddenly saw their portfolio lose half its value.

Question: Do musicians get paid everytime one of their songs is played on any radio station at any given time?
Answer: They do get paid royalties, but it's not a one-to-one pay out (i.e. you typically do not get paid in relation to each time your song is played). Basically radio stations report which songs they've played during what programs to performing rights organizations which then decide how to divide up the royalties appropriately and give each (registered) composer/publisher/author a fair share based on play-time of their music during a given period.

Question: Why is the word ignorant used as an insult, when everyone is ignorant.
Answer: Ignorant is used as an insult regarding things you are supposed to know.

Question: Why we dont forget how to talk when they erase our memories?
Answer: When who erases our memories? At the moment we don't really know enough about the brain to *intentionally* remove memories from one without also causing severe damage to other systems.

But if we're talking in terms of accidental memory loss (from head trauma, etc) then it's very common for one to lose more than just memory -- challenges interpreting or experiencing emotions or the loss of linguistic abilities are also common in cases of severe head trauma. So I guess the answer to your question is "We do!".

Generally speaking, retrograde amnesia (the loss of one's existing memories) is actually relatively rare, and sometimes it's even temporary. What's far more common (from my reading, at least) is anterograde amnesia, which is when the mind loses the ability for form *new* long-term memories. But in either case, loss of language skills isn't at all rare, just less widely featured in media. Memory loss stories are common in a lot of fiction, especially science fiction (and soap operas). In such stories, it would usually be far too inconvenient for a character to lose their memories AND their ability to participate in dialogue.

Question: Why don't people sense the pressure of the atmosphere?
Answer: It isn't our brain filtering out something constant. Everything on Earth, including inanimate objects, is being pushed on by that pressure, all the time. All that air above you weighs a lot. It's exerting a force on you, a huge one. So you, and everything else, need to push back. Your body is pushing out constantly with a huge force against the atmosphere, as is everything here on Earth. We don't feel it because the forces balance each other out.

Question: If nature is so jagged, colorful, and seemingly random (yes, I know all about the golden ratio), why do us humans find straight lines, clean edges, and muted colors so aesthetically pleasing?
Answer: 2 things most likely.

1) We like these things because they are different from nature. We can get all the other stuff from nature easy enough, but we have to work at making a straight line.

2) Nature is dangerous. Disease, predators, poisons, and natural disasters are all natural, so why should we necessarily desire natural? Appeal to Nature is a fallacy.

Question: How does the 3DS work?
Answer: I assume you mean the 3D aspect? when the 3d is activated, the screen disaplays two slightly different images visible at different angles. one image is seen by your left eye, the other by your right. the images are such that they create the illusion of depth.

Question: how could the Romans build 220 ships in 45 days?
Answer: You really have to take into perspective of how massive the roman populations expanded to at that time.  And it's not exactly to say they built cruise ships, but smaller more manageable ships and boats; *as well as* the high level of slave driving and forced prisoner labor that took place.

Question: Why do people tends to shift to the right (ie - adopt more conservative views) as they age?
Answer: The way it was put to me was somewhere along the lines of "You don't become conservative until you have something to conserve".

Question: What exactly gets lost when mass gets converted into energy?
Answer: Nothing gets 'lost' per se, that mass represents the energy (and some other stuff) that was originally bound up in the Hydrogen atoms. Helium atoms use less energy to keep everything together than two Hydrogen atoms, so some of that energy gets ejected from the newly minted helium atom. And that's how our sun shines. That little bit of mass that gets transferred into energy, times a very large number, per second.

Bonus: [Why does the Sun Shine](_URL_0_)

Question: The theory we are all colorblind in our own way.
Answer: I don't believe it's color blindness, just difference of interpretation

Question: Why is it a bad idea to put dental glue for braces all over your teeth to prevent damage or for less maintenance?
Answer: It's easier and less expensive to just brush and floss, but even if you could encase your teeth in a protective shell, you would still need to brush and floss to protect your gums from disease. People with crowns, which cover the exposed tooth and cannot get cavities, can still develop cavities around the edge of the crown near the gumline.

Question: What should I go to school for if I want the knowledge to fix audio equipment and gear? ( like synths, receivers, etc.)
Answer: Engineering, specifically electrical or electronic engineering. Luckily, Electrical engineering is a very broad field, so you could get your degree there and then decide later that you aren't super interested in audio equipment, but you'll still have a really great degree to fall back on in order to further your career goals.

This is a question for Google, not for ELI5.

Question: Why is that when we flick an ant with our finger, it continues to walk around unharmed, where as if a human were reduced to the size of an ant and flicked the same way, it would end up being killed by the physical damage alone?
Answer: Square-cube law. Ants have a sturdy structure which would immediately collapse if they were human-sized.

Question: How do they get the ketchup into those little drive-thru packages?
Answer: [Like this](_URL_0_).

^This ^useless ^sentence ^brought ^to ^you ^by ^AutoModerator's ^Nazi ^length ^requirements.

Question: Hollywood Pedophilia
Answer: Not an expert. But my understanding is that they have easy access to actors - actors need to please to get good parts: this includes handsome guys, cute girls, teens and kids.
They have parties with a lot of drugs. They are often creative, sometimes deviant.
Omerta: no one says anything even if everyone knows.

Question: Why does the human eye see more shades of green than any other colour?
Answer: this is due to the Spectral sensitivity of the eye it perceve a larger intencity of green and red light than it does for blue, the eye has 3 type of colour receptors called cones and rods that are associated to the 3 primary colours, the amount of cones and rods for the 3 colours are not equal so you might perceve more green than you would for blue.

Question: What exactly would it be like to live or visit the fourth dimension (4D)?
Answer: A dimension is not a place you can visit. A dimension is a direction. For example, on a straight line, there is only one possible direction of motion, namely forward/backward, so a line is a one-dimensional space. In a flat plane, you can move forward/backward or left/right, so a plane is two-dimensional. Similarly, the earth's surface is two-dimensional because you can move east/west or north/south. Keep in mind we don't need to use east/west or north/south specifically; we could use northeast/southwest and northwest/southeast, for example, and still be able to measure distances and directions just as accurately. So there isn't really a fixed "first dimension" or "second dimension"; you can choose any combination of directions you want, but in the end you will always need 2 directions to specify motion on the earth's surface. No single direction can encompass all possible movements, and any third direction you try to add will just be redundant. The *number* of dimensions a particular space has is fixed; which directions correspond to which dimensions are not.

Similarly, if you take all of space, not just earth's surface, there are now 3 independent directions to move in: not just east/west and north/south but also up/down. Again, up/down is not "the third dimension" in any meaningful sense, since we can choose any combination of 3 directions we want in any order we want to label the dimensions. A fourth spatial dimension would be exactly the same sort of thing: just take ordinary space and add another direction to travel in. Of course it's impossible to visualize this, since human brains evolved to deal with three-dimensional objects, but it's not fundamentally any different than two-, three-, or seventeen-dimensional space.

Some confusion can arise in physics because in relativity there are in fact two kinds of dimensions/directions: ones that act like space and ones that act like time. As far as we can tell, the universe has three-dimensional space and one-dimensional time (since there's only one direction to time: forwards/backwards), but some theories postulate more dimensions which are not apparent on the macro scale. So while space itself is three-dimensional, the full structure of space-time is four-dimensional.

Question: How can a telescope detect oxygen?
Answer: Spectroscopy. Different atoms and molecules absorb/emit light at different wavelengths. Spectroscopy is basically an analysis of the light we see coming from an object (an emission spectrum). We can compare that light to the emission patterns of elements and tell what a planet or star is made of.

Question: What are the origins of the Baptist church?
Answer: The original baptist church was started by a minister who had split from the Anglican church (the Church of England).  From there it grew and spread, came to the new world, and became very diverse.  Today it is not a guarantee that two baptists from different congregations (this means a church community) will believe the same thing.

The most unifying theology (belief) of baptists, and what they get their name from, is their believe in "believer's baptism".  In the Catholic church a person is baptized as a baby, here the belief is that the act of being baptized forgives the original sin that human beings are born with.  The belief of many protestants, including baptists, is that one should be baptized after they are old enough to express personal belief in the church's teachings.

Question: How does Albert Einstein's equation E=MC^2 relate to the creation of the atomic bomb?
Answer: When a nucleus of uranium-235 or plutonium-239 absorbs an additional neutron, it makes it wobble significantly. This wobbling causes it to break into two more or less equal-sized chunks. These chunks are then repelled away from each other by their electrostatic charges — it is like trying to hold two magnets so that their positive poles touch the other positive poles.

(Why don't they fly apart prior to the neutron? The nuclear force holds them together. The wobbling puts the pieces just outside the range of the nuclear force, and the electrostatic forces take over.)

This violent repelling releases about 200 MeV of energy. By itself, that isn't much from a human scale — maybe enough to kick a speck of dust. But if every fission releases 2-3 neutrons, and those go on to do more fission reactions, then you can create an exponential chain reaction. And 80 or so generations of that (~2^80 fission reactions) is enough dust kicking to level a city.

OK, so what does this have to do with E=mc^2 ? The above description avoids it entirely — you don't actually need the equation to make sense of an atomic explosion. But it can be another way to understand where that 200 MeV comes from — it's energy that was "bound" up in the nucleus when it was formed, in the same way that energy is bound in a compressed spring. When you unhook the system, you end up releasing some of that pent-up energy. As with a spring, that energy has a mass equivalent (yes, springs get heavier when you compress them — but only infinitesimally so). Because the scale that we're dealing with is so tiny (an atomic nucleus) it does constitute a significant portion of the total mass of the system. 

I find talking about E=mc^2 and atomic bombs somewhat misleading. It makes for good journalistic fodder. But it overstates the importance of the equation. All energy releases involve the conversion of a tiny bit of mass into energy — it's not unique to atomic bombs. It's just easier to measure with atomic bombs, because the amount of energy is very large in proportion to the size of the system we're talking about.

Question: Why can I never remember falling asleep?
Answer: Here's the scary thing:  This must be what it's like to die, except you never wake up and have the memory of attempting to go to sleep.

Question: why we get goosebumps when we hear a particularly beautiful voice or a certain scene in a movie?
Answer: The human brain is pretty amazing; it doesn't have to actually experience something to respond to it. Some external stimuli (e.g. a scene in a movie)  can lead your brain to start acting like you are experiencing that scene in real life. This leads to the release of chemicals in the brain (neurotransmitters, hormones) which cause the body to physically react. 

The reason you get goosebumps comes down to evolution. A common response to fear, surprise, danger, and other strong emotions in mammals is to "puff up" their fur. This makes the mammal appear larger, and therefore more intimidating to what ever is making it afraid, surprised, etc. Do you have a cat nearby? Go scare it and you can see this in action.

Now, humans have lost most of our hair, but we still have the brain pathways that say "strong emotion = raise hair." So when we expose ourselves to something the evokes strong feelings, our body tries to puff us up like a terrified cat.

Question: How do we know that a machine isn't deceiving us during a Turing test by simulating detectable machine answers so the AI remains undetected?
Answer: In general, many people give too much credit to Artificial Intelligence in its current state of advancement. Most Artificial Intelligence is simply a very complex rule based system. If x than y. If not x than z. While the situations become much more complicated and the algorithms used to make these decisions could make your head spin, the rules and algorithms still create very binary decisions which could not lead to a machine "deceiving" humans during a Turing Test. 

A specific type of Artificial Intelligence known as Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs) is where I think your question more directly applies. ANNs are unique as humans have to "teach" these systems versus creating rules. The way humans "teach" ANNs is through data training sets where the ANN derives what it perceives as meaningful patterns. An ANN (hahaha) is only as smart as the data set you have chosen to teach it and selecting the data to teach the ANN is not an exact science. 

For example, there was a study done where an ANN was designed to identify helicopters in images. The study complied 100's of photos with helicopters in the image and then 100's of photos without a helicopter in the image. The ANN was confirmed to have learned the data set through various validation methods with a 90%+ success rate. However, when given new photos failed to correctly identify helicopters less than 50% of the time. What's the deal?!? Well, the difficult part about ANNs is the way it arrives at a decision cannot be easily determined or traced. What the study found out was that all of the photos with the helicopters in the image were taken on days where there were clouds in the sky. So instead of actually identifying the helicopter itself, the ANN made the conclusion that if there was a cloud there was a helicopter which worked for the very small data set but failed when presented with new data.

So how do we chose the perfect data set to train ANNs to perform a specific task? Who knows... not to mention the issues encountered when dealing with large volumes of structured and unstructured data with missing or incomplete data sets. 

The most notable feature about an ANN though is the fact that it still does not make "new decisions" as it uses patterns it has already been taught based on training data sets to reach decisions. As shown in the example above, even if we generated a data set which would aim to "deceive humans during a Turing Test" the ANN could draw a completely irrelevant conclusion not to mention the fact that humans would have to generate a data set which would teach it to have actual intelligence or enough to learn how to decieve... 

Soo I guess the answer is until humans can figure out how to "teach" something to have genuine intelligence/deceive humans any AI will be unable to deceive humans in a Turing Test because the AI makes rule based decisions or in the case of an ANN makes decisions based on a small representative portion of data (that may not even be appropriate) where it would already have to have been "taught" to deceive humans during a Turing Test.

As mentioned in other comments, the Turing Test is actually not a great standard to measure machine intelligence and better standards need to be created as AI advances.

Question: How can radio waves go through walls, but visible light can't?
Answer: Depends what the wall is made of. Various chemicals are transparent to various frequencies of light. Typically we also prefer walls people can't see through so we avoid materials that are transparent but you could choose the opposite.

Question: why do your pupils dilate when you take Psychedelic drugs?
Answer: depends on the drugs or your definition of psychedelic. if you mean sensory hallucinations (drugs known as hallucinogens) then its because they generally act as stimulants (another word for drugs that overclock your brain) and since your eyes are now processing more light back at the cerebral end and your heart rate is up to feed your brain (as well as your eyes coincidentally), then you dilate (vasodilator and pupillary dilate)

this dilation is therefore twofold - your eyes are literally able to take more light on, and also the nerves that stimulate your heart are closely related to the nerves that dilate your eyes.

i would go so far as to say that the phrase "you need to open up" has a very literal meaning here, because your emotional openness is almost a gradient of how much you can activate and control/digest the info from this cluster of nerves, called your sympathetic and parasymphatetic nerves

Question: how wells work.
Answer: The dirt, rock, silt, etc filter the salt and impurities from the sea water. So the water you drill down to tends to be much cleaner than the ocean it comes from around your island.

Question: How much effect does Central Park have on New York City's air quality?
Answer: Ever spit into the ocean? It's about that much effect.

Question: Why are some former presidents referred to as former President and some referred to as President?
Answer: "President" is an official title, but it is also a job. If you were ever the President of the United States, you are entitled to use the title President for the rest of your life. Thus, everyone who was ever President is titled "President", but every one except Barack Obama is also a "former President".

Question: Why do sounds become 'distant' when you hang upside down?
Answer: Probably because gravity lets blood pool in some of the areas of your inner ear that normally aren't so full of blood, which slightly dampens how effective your ear drums are. Guessing.

Question: Why is that when someone sentenced to 20-30 year in court but sometime only need to serve a year or so?
Answer: Judges usually don't give a simple sentence, they usually give a fixed term over a variable term (kind of like a mortgage).

The news reads "sentenced to 20 years", but really it is "sentenced to 20 years with parole eligibility after 8".

There is a fucking colossal variation in the behavior patterns and temperaments of people sentenced for the same crime. Some people are psychopaths who society was lucky enough to catch on a relatively small charge, some people commit heinous crimes but are mostly normal people who had one bad day.

The gap between minimum and maximum sentencing are a mechanism to let manageable people out earlier and keep dangerous people in longer, with the fixed sentence being a kind of observation period where therapists and C.O.'s can document behavior so parole-board can decide if they can be trusted for early release or need to be kept out of society for as long as possible.

Question: How do divers that don't have an oxygen tank not get brain damage from lack of air?
Answer: Mammals have bodily reflexes to being underwater known as [mammalian diving reflex](_URL_0_). Heart rates are reduced and our bodies let the outer layers cool(by not delivering blood) so that it can conserve oxygen.

As babies fresh out of the womb this reflex is generally very strong but we lose it overtime, free divers train to build this back up. Having said that, there is still a lot of risk involved. People blackout before they start to suffer brain damage and blacking out underwater can very quickly be a death sentence.

Question: Why do some businesses say no photos?
Answer: There could be many reasons. 

1) Taking photos is discrating to the people working. This is common for performance venues. 

2) Taking photos may capture information that the business is keeping secret. 

3) The business may make their money by having people come into it to see what they have. You get this a lot with art galleries and museums. 

4) Flash photography can degrade the objects. This is also common with museums and art galleries. 

5) The business owners simply do not like pictures.

Question: Why must an FCC approved device accept interference that may cause "undesired operation"?
Answer: It means that the device has a low priority on the hierarchy of communications, so if something is interfering with it, tough titty.

As an example posted on a thread I found about this, someone pointed out that amateur radio and wireless LANs share a frequency band. Because amateur radio is on a higher priority than your wireless LAN, if your LAN gets shut down by the radio transmitter, you have no recourse. If your LAN is malfunctioning and messes up the radio transmitter, however, they can petition the FCC to order your WLAN shut down, because a lower-priority system is interfering with a higher-priority one.

Question: Government bonds
Answer: It's pretty straight forward. You are not so much "investing in the government"  - you are loaning the government money for a profit.

The government sometimes needs to raise cash. To do this, they issue bonds. A bond is essentially a loan agreement between the buyer and the government. If I buy a bond for $100 today, I am buying a promise from the government that they will give me $105 in 30 days. I earned $5! 

They are viewed as very safe investments because governments will always pay them back as promised if they can. If they don't pay as promised, people will become afraid to loan them money. The governments don't want that, so they make sure to always pay them on time. But, every once in a while, a government gets in trouble and can't pay back the loans. This causes big problems for the government and the economy. It happened to Russia in the 80's, and it could happen any day in Greece right now. They are probably one of the safest investments you can make, but they are by no means 100% safe - no investment really is.

Question: Why is bureaucracy in India so stifling, and why does it seem to be accepted by everyday people?
Answer: A lot of things in India are blamed on the British (including the 1000+ year old caste system). When it can't be blamed on the British it's blamed on Pakistan. When it can't be blamed on Pakistan it's blamed on India's less developed/poor states. When not them then it's the next village over, or the other political party, or that guy eating a hamburger. While in mainland China a man will vigorously deny that his kitchen is on fire even as smoke pours out the windows, in India the man will easily admit it but also be very quick tell you who is to blame for it (and it certainly wasn't him despite the fact that he was the only person home at the time).

After independence the new Indian government almost immediately chose to adopt a communist-lite system for its economy. The country would retain private ownership but the government would directly manage a centrally planned economy like the USSR. 

To accomplish this feat a system was setup (later dubbed the Licence Raj by critics) to tightly control what businesses could do based on the licence they had. If the government decided the country should grow more suger and less beans then the number of licences for growing suger would be increased while bean growing licences would be cut. This created a vast, corrupt and ultimately self-sustaining bureaucracy to handle all those licences. Imagine the DMV applied to nearly everything. Even though the system was ended in the 90s its legacy remains as it is essentially the only form of goverment most in India have ever known.

Question: what does it mean to wear your heart on your sleeve?
Answer: It is a metaphor.  It means that you allow your emotions to show- people can tell easily if you are happy, sad, angry, etc- ether by what you say, or how you act/compose yourself.

Question: If water makes up 70% of our earth and we have things such as water purifiers, why are we running out of drinking water on our planet?
Answer: We're *not* running out.

The problem isn't the amount of drinking water, it's the *distribution* of the water.

Most developed countries could probably hydrate their population 50 times over, if they wanted (assuming there's no drought). Whereas, for example, in hot African countries where water is scarce, contains diseases and there is little technology available to purify the water, *then* you get dehydration problems..

Question: What would happen if the Yellowstone super volcano erupted?
Answer: Since this is a science question, I figured I'd use the search function of r/askscience to find you some relevant submissions there.

Look what I found!

- [This thread](_URL_0_).
- [This thread](_URL_2_).
- [This thread](_URL_1_).

And you know what? None of them are complicated. Enjoy your reading. :-)

Question: why is it that we are able to subconsciously control our bladders when we sleep? How is it that we manage not to piss ourselves?
Answer: Your body releases a hormone while you sleep called vasopressin which inhibits the production of urine. You produce less urine while you sleep, and it's a thicker, more dense liquid (partly because of the hormone, partly because you're not drinking while you're asleep). 

People who have lower naturally occurring levels of vasopressin have to take a synthetic form of it called desmopressin before they go to sleep. And that's why we don't piss ourselves!

Question: Why are dinosaurs marketed so much toward kids instead of other animals?
Answer: Dinosaurs only exist in the toy aisle of the store.  

For contrast, ponies are a real thing.  You can actually buy your kid a pony, and teach it all about how much a pony eats and the work involved in picking up after a pony.  There is a mix of upside and downside with a pony.

Where I grew up, many kids had a "pet" cow as part of a 4H project.  They took wonderful care of their cow, and showed them off in competitions.  Then their took their cow down to the slaughterhouse and saw it converted into sides of beef they could sell or bring home and eat.

That last step is a bittersweet experience for most young ranch children.  It's an essential aspect of why cows are so numerous in the area, but it's very different that their relationship with the family dog.  

With dinos you never have to risk breaking the fantasy.

Question: How do basic circuits work, what is voltage, resistance and current?
Answer: I think of it in terms of water. 

Water flows from high ground to low ground. Electricity flows from negative to positive. 

A river is when you have a channel for the water to move through. A circuit is when you have a conductor for the electricity to move through. Damn the river, the flow stops. Break the continuity of the circuit, the flow stops. 

Voltage would be the pressure in a water line. 

Your amperage or current would be how much water is moving. 

Resistance would be like debri in the river. The more debri, the more the river has to push. 

In a circuit you’re going to have a place with a negative charge connected to a place with a positive charge by a conductor, like a copper wire. The negative and positive want to balance out, so electrons flow from the negative to the positive to make it happen.

But flowing can be hard because of the resistance in the conductor. You need voltage to push against the resistance, and the higher the resistance the harder you have to push. Some things like gold have almost no resistance and you can push very easily. Other things like rubber you will need a metric fuckton of voltage to push through.

Question: Rugby and how its played
Answer: As an American, I hope someone will answer this question seriously. I'd like to be able to comment on that ludicrous display last night.

Question: why do oceans exist?
Answer: Oceans cannot be absorbed into the sea bed because below the sea bed there is bedrock and the water is already saturated within the sea bed. Open water sits on top of the water within the sea bed.

Question: Why do Americas call "Back Bacon", "Canadian Bacon" and when did that start?
Answer: It is called both Canadian Bacon and to a far lesser degree Irish Bacon or Back Bacon in the US. This is because they are the cuts that the Canadians and Irish (as well as the UK) call bacon. They are from the pork loin which is the back muscles toward the rear of the pig. 

But what we Americans call bacon is from the belly of the pig. Canada, Ireland, and the UK call it "American Bacon", "Streaky Bacon", and sometimes "Belly Bacon". But they call "Back Bacon" just Bacon there. 

Edit: correcting stringy to streaky.

Question: Why is Xbox in competition with PCs? If most gaming PCs run on Microsoft Windows what do they gain by releasing a "console only" game?
Answer: Delving into this is going to take awhile.

Historically, (i.e the past two console generations) game consoles used pretty different API's to PC's - the current batch is standardised so that it's incredibly easy to port games from one console to the PC. The attraction of game consoles was with ease of running and made use of the often expensive setup for television and audio already present, whereas PC's were their own thing in offices - not usually set up with standard televisions. The switch with televisions to a digital audio setup has made using a TV for a computer monitor or a computer monitor for a TV pretty easy if not necessarily built for purpose.

Nowadays, where PC gaming has shifted largely to steam as a DRM format over copy protected discs, steam can work with developers to ensure the games work for a wide erray of systems - necessary when you have on-demand purchases that are delivered immediately to the consumer. As a result, games a much less hassle to get running on PC these days and so PC gaming as a whole, is only a matter of initial purchase in terms of ease of use. This is compounded by the fact that consoles often have hard drives, take time to install, and in some cases take time to download as well. The advantage of a PC is you can do other things with it as well while installs happen, while things download. I suspect this is why consoles have begun trying to switch to media entertainment platforms rather than just straight gaming machines - see Xbox one's capacity to stream TV etc. Sony's playstation network which is more of a social network than XBlive is. In recent years the shift from dedicated gaming platforms to machines that can multitask, as evidenced by the large amount of indie games for mobile operating systems, has begun taking over and I suspect the consoles themselves are driving this shift in an effort to maintain relevancy.

What does this have to do with competition with PC's? Essentially, the xbox line started out with a different market as PC, now the market is very similar - almost identical, as the cost of PC hardware has dropped and so has the cost of PC games. The reason for console exclusives now, is to try and encourage console adopters to use their console over the competitors, but they're both becoming more and more like a PC is. The only real difference at this point is standardised hardware, developers can guarantee that the hardware in a console is able to run the game marketed for the platform, and the fact that the PC is still far and away the best all-in-one platform. 

I'd make the argument that current batch of consoles are slipping further and further into irrelevancy, that's not to say they can't recover and define a market niche for themselves, but this generation doesn't do itself any favours. I don't know many PC gamers who buy a single console, if they can afford a PC and a games console, as well as games for both, they can usually afford a third or fourth console too. Historically PC games used to have their own niche market over console games, but not so much anymore and exclusives are really only used to try and grab sales from the competitor, though I'd wager with the explosion in popularity gaming has seen, even that is un-necessary.

Question: Why do we use the word "late" when talking about deceased people?
Answer: One lesser-known meaning of "late" is "recently, but not any more". If, for example, you say, "A man late of London," you mean he used to live in London until just a short time ago, but now he lives somewhere else.

From that came the expression "The late Mrs Smith," which was used as a euphemism to avoid using the word "dead". It basically means: "Mrs Smith, who used to exist until just a short time ago, but now no longer does."

Question: Why isn't a Bluetooth connection instant?
Answer: Whenever two electronic devices talk to each other they go through what's called a "handshake" - basically it's the two devices trying to negotiate a common ground and make sure they can continue speaking in a stable fashion.

 > Device A: "Hey! Hey is anyone there?"

 > Device B: "Yeah, I'm here. Hi, I'm B. Wanna talk?"

 > Device A: "Hey B. Yeah I want to talk... I'm on Bluetooth v. 2 and can talk at 2.1Mbit/s, how about you?"

 > Device B: "oooh... no I can't do that... I'm on Bluetooth v. 1.2 and can only talk at .7Mbit/s, is that ok?"

 > Device A: "Yeah that's not a problem I can handle that. Ok so we'll use v1.2 and talk at .7Mbit/s, deal?"

 > Device B: "Deal."

 > Devices are now officially connected.

Question: Why is shampoo almost always colored but conditioner is almost always white?
Answer: Hm, I guess that hasn't been my experience. Besides white I've had pink, blue, and yellow conditioner. Maybe it's just the brand you're buying?

Question: Who notifies Google about newly made roads for their maps?
Answer: There are companies specialized in this sort of thing. They monitor local government announcements, planning permissions, etc., and when they see a new road is being constructed, they will go and collect the data.

Google's maps business is big enough for them to own some companies like that as a subsidiary, but sometimes they might just hire external companies to gather the data and provide it in a format that's easy to plug into the Maps database.

Question: What is the difference between being a line cook and a chef?
Answer: Cool, that makes sense. I recently became the kitchen manager of my restaurant six months ago, the only reason why is because everyone else who worked there quit. But I make new recipes constantly and everyone calls me chef, but it feels weird.

Question: What's the difference between the words 'Muslim' and 'Islamic'?
Answer: "Muslim" refers to people. "Islamic" refers to everything *but* people: "Islamic art" "Islamic architecture" "the Islamic world." Like that.

Question: Why does the U.S. always side with Israel over Palestine?
Answer: There's no diplomatic way to say this — Israel is considered to be culturally similar to the US, it has a representative government with stable political institutions,  and American Jews (who tend to support Israel) are an important domestic political constituency.

Question: Why do those cheesy pictures that get shared on Facebook always looks so grainy and pixelated?
Answer: They tend to pick up artifacts because the original image has gone through a chain of hundreds of computing devices which used different file formats and resolutions and so on. People do stupid shit with their files like opening them in Paint to edit them (adding/removing watermarks, resizing, adding/removing text, messing with color depth) and then saving them in a different format.

A lot of image formats, like jpeg, are "lossy." To save file size, a jpeg will essentially smooth out some of the fine details of the image, which gives you [artifacting](_URL_0_).

If you pass an image around from one lossy file format to the next, it will artifact more and more each time its format changes, so the quality gets worse and worse.

Question: "Magic eye" images
Answer: One of the depth cues your brain uses to determine where things are located is called binocular disparity.  Binocular disparity works by comparing the image of the world in the left eye to the image of the world in the right eye.  Depending on how different the two images of an object are in the two eyes (the binocular disparity), that can be used by your brain to calculate exactly how far away an object is.

When you see a magic eye picture, it contains many elements that repeat over and over again.  To see the magic eye picture, you have to focus behind the page in order to create a double image.  Then, you slowly bring the two images back together.  The magic eye image has been constructed such that when you do this, it will match up each spot on the image in the left eye with a  <  < different >  >  spot on the image in the right eye.  The magic eye image has been constructed so that the binocular disparities between all the points in the image create a new picture that usually is recessed into or pops out of depth.

Notice, because of the way it works, you can make it go away by tilting the page.  The magic eye image only works when it is horizontal.

Question: Does Marijuana really makes you slower?
Answer: It seems like it at first, but that's because when you are stoned, you are a different "you" and you have to learn to do things over again. For example: you smoke a bunch of weed then decide to go to the munchy store, you get outside and start walking, and it's totally awkward, you feel wobbly, your legs feel crooked, and you get all conscientious. But if you make it a point to go out for a walk after a bong rip, then your stoned body will learn how to walk and it will become easy and natural for you to walk stoned. The same applies to just about everything; you just need to learn how to do it stoned. 

Edit: Since I just saw your edit. As far as programming goes, it can help you and hinder you. It can actually give you an edge if you smoke a small amount. I find it makes more conscientious and so I notice extra little things when learning a language, that I might otherwise skip over. Also, programming means that you are using your creative facilities to come up solutions to achieve the desired results in your scripts and apps. A tiny bit will lend you a certain amount of lucidity that may help in those endeavors.

I definitely wouldn't be able to program if I smoked a lot. I'm sure I would mess my code up and not be able to figure out how to fix it.

Moderation is key.

Question: why progress bars always hang on 99/100%
Answer: Progress bar values are basically made up by the developer.  For some things they work pretty good.  If you are downloading a 100MB file and have finished downloading 70MB then saying you are 70% done is pretty easy.  For things like installing a game, where you have a huge number of files of different sizes it gets a little trickier, and for some things you can't really know ahead of time how long individual parts of the process will take, so you are really just guessing.  This is why you will get stuck on a random number like 37% for a while, the instantly jump to 52%.

Now in all cases though, developers will often have some sort of main execution section and when they finish that they are "pretty much done".  So they set the progress bar to 99% or 100% and then they "just do some cleanup".  Where cleanup are some usually small tasks they need to complete to really be finished with everything.  Sometimes the developer simply underestimates exactly how much stuff they need to get done with (just this one more little thing, then I'll be done...) or he has to wait on the OS for something that takes some time he didn't account for.  If they were expecting the main work to take a significant amount of time, then maybe this cleanup really is 1% of the total time, but if the main work gets done fast it appears to lag here.  There is also a "watch pot doesn't boil" effect since you are just waiting for that final %.

TL;DR Because the percents are made up by programmers, and programmers are bad at estimating how long things will take

Question: What is the mechanism that wireless devices use to generate electromagnetic waves, millions per second?
Answer: Electromagnetic waves generated by our current generation wireless technology (what are called "transverse electromagnetic waves" or TEM), are thought to be alternating areas of (relatively) strong electric field followed by strong magnetic field followed by strong electric field, etc. The change of intensity of one type of field leads to the creation of the other type like ripples of water on a pond (this phenomenon was explored by Michael Faraday, and described mathematically by James Clerk Maxwell, Oliver Heaviside etc.)

It follows from their discoveries that charging up a metal conductor (like an antenna) and discharging it rapidly can lead to these TEM waves rippling outwards. Charging and discharging is actually just another way to say "electrons moving back and forth" (though they actually move quite slowly), and every time these electrons change direction, another wave ripples outward.

How do you charge up and discharge an antenna rapidly? Well you need some way to connect it to the positive side and then negative side of a battery (or other source of voltage) millions of times per second. The positive side will suck electrons off the antenna, and the negative side will pump them back on the antenna (this may sound backwards but isn't, electrons are negatively charged and hang out in greater numbers at the negative terminal of a battery).

Modern transistors (essentially electrically controlled switches) can switch on and off millions (and billions) of times per seconds, and so are great for this. To do this switching, they only need a small electrical control signal, which is changing exactly as fast as you want the antenna to charge and discharge. These transistors that do the actual charging/discharging are called "amplifiers", because they amplify the power of the small control signal to give the antenna a stiff charging and discharging with each cycle.

But how do you make a small electrical signal change millions of times per second? For that you need what we call an "oscillator".

In modern radios this is usually a special arrangement of transistor amplifiers put in feedback with each other to create an electrical "ringing". You know how putting a microphone up to a speaker causes a screeching sound? That's what we call feedback. Same idea, just a much higher pitch screech. We can even change the pitch of the screech electrically by using neat tricks. One circuit that does this is called a Voltage Controlled Oscillator (or VCO), and it uses a neat trick with a diode that lets us easily pick different "channels" to broadcast on (you know, all those different spots on your radio dial).

VCOs are not known for making really pure and pitch-perfect tones however, so like a singer before a performance we tune them up. In the radio world, our electrical tuning forks are made from precisely cut pieces of quartz crystal surrounded by yet more transistors. The transistors help keep the fork ringing as long as there is power in the battery. We use precisely cut quartz for this, because when tickled properly it can "ring" electrically with a very pure tone (and pure tones are very important - they help the cell tower pick your phone out from the crowd).

So there you have it. Today's wireless devices start with a pure tone generated by a quartz crystal tuning fork, that is used to tune a screeching-feedback VCO. The (now much cleaner) tone from that VCO is then used to control amplifying transistors, that charge and discharge a piece of metal, that causes ripples of electromagnetism to radiate outwards.

Question: What is the scientific reason behind why pedophilia exists?
Answer: Rather than postulate about sexual advantage, I would say the main factor is that human sexual desire, like most other elements of human sexuality, exists on a spectrum rather than clear and discrete values. The main biological default is that one will be most strongly sexually attracted to those who show general youthfulness but are otherwise sexually at full maturity (which basically means roughly late-teens through early 30s, where both women and men are most likely to be healthy, sexually active, and virile, and where women in particular will have bodies fully developed for bearing a pregnancy but not dealing with age-related issues that make pregnancy more difficult/dangerous), but because of that spectrum some people exist at the tails of the distribution and thus are attracted to older individuals, or alternately to those who have barely reached the limits of sexual maturity.

Pedophilia has a formal definition that is slightly different than its common definition. Clinically, attraction by an otherwise fully adult individual to those near full maturity but not quite there (~16-20) is "ephebophilia", whereas attraction to younger people still going through the earlier stages of puberty (~12-16) is "hebephilia" and attraction to those who have not yet entered puberty (~ < 12) is "pedophilia." Culturally, anything before legal adulthood (all 3 sub-categories) or age of consent (the latter 2 categories) is often generically called pedophilia, and often considered both a taboo in general and unlawful in particular.

None of this discussion so far deals with any moral question over the condition, beyond discussing generically the issue of something being taboo; instead it merely deals with the technical question of why it exists. When you start dealing with the moral questions of what is acceptable and why society deals with it in certain ways, it usually settles to some question of the exploitative nature of the arrangement, which increases further with younger age of the individual (hence the difference in age of consent versus legal adulthood), an argument that has substantial evidence backing it but about which people have a myriad of different opinions (which is a major factor in considerations such as "Romeo and Juliet" laws).

I hope that helps. I feel kind of dirty just thinking about the topic...

Question: How do spark plugs break car windows while rocks can't?
Answer: concentration of force.

a nail can break a window.   a palm doesn't, even if there's more force applied.

Question: . Why is voltage proportional to resistance when voltage drops after going through a resistor
Answer: It's not perfect, but the water analogy is a reasonable one.

You can think of resistance as the size of a pipe, with larger resistances meaning smaller pipes.  Voltage is proportional to resistance as long as current is kept constant.  Constant current is analogous to constant flow, so that means that if you take two pipes of different sizes and ensure the flow rate is the same through both of them, you'll have to have a higher pressure on the smaller pipe.  In practice (in both electricity and water systems), you tend to have pressure/voltage as the variable you can control and then the other two are inversely proportional, and expressing it that way is more intuitive.

Question: I need a very 5 year old explanation of what happens when normal poor people file bankruptcy.
Answer: Most poor people will file what is called a Chapter 7 bankruptcy. First, you list all of the debts you owe and who you owe them to. The fact that you're applying for bankruptcy is published, so any creditors who were unaware can come forward. First, the court stops everyone from being able to sue you or otherwise trying to collect the debt--they will have to go through the court.The court appoints an administrator who tries to determine who has priority in getting paid. 

Then, an administrator starts distributing your property and assets to creditors, except the law allows you to keep a certain amount. For example, if your house is below a certain value it can't be sold, and your retirement funds are protected as well.

Once all of the excess assets you had are distributed, the remainder of your debt is cleared. Any creditors who didn't get back all of the money you owed them are out of luck. So you come out of the bankruptcy process poor, but debt-free.

Question: How come video compression is getting better all the time, but sound files are still the same size as ever?
Answer: Audio compression is already really good, and has been for ages. People tend to be a bit more picky about audio quality (real or perceived) than they are about video quality, for some reason. 

The bottom line is we don't really need better compression for audio files.

Question: How does lumens work?
Answer: Let's look at what a "40W" light bulb means first.

"40W" means that the bulb consumes 40 Watts of power.  Exactly what a "Watt" is doesn't much matter.  The point is that it measures how much power the bulb *uses*.  Incandescent bulbs waste about 90% of their energy as heat (which makes Easy Bake Ovens work).  This makes about as much sense as comparing car engines based on how much gas they use, rather than how much horsepower they have.

Lumens, however, are an actual measurement of how much light a bulb emits.  It doesn't matter if you're a wasteful fluorescent bulb or a super-efficient LED - rating the bulb in lumens gives you the same result.

The problem is that saying "40W equivalent" is a meaningless term and has no basis in reality - it doesn't measure the power consumption *OR* the actual light output.  Just assume that they're lying to you.  A 40W bulb generally puts out 4-500 lumens of light.  Claiming a 100 lumen light is close to that is just **wrong**.

Question: Online Universities and their value over a traditional degree. Is a degree from one just as good from the other?
Answer: In the UK this depends entirely on the reputation of the University.  We have the Open University, which was established in 1969 specifically for distance learning regardless of previous qualifications.  In 2009/10 it enrolled 250,000 students and in 2011 was ranked in the top 40 UK Universities and top 500 globally - quite an achievement for such a junior establishment.

As a result degrees from the OU are well thought of and, because they are often taken by students in full time work, are indicative of good self discipline, organisation, motivation and dedication.

Question: What is the IMF and what does it do?
Answer: The International Monetary Fund deals with money problems on a world-wide scale.  Think of them like a bank, but for countries not people.  It started by a bunch of countries putting in money, and other countries could borrow this money if they promised to change their economies to be more 'effective'.  I put this in quotes because lots of people criticize the IMF's required changes (to get a loan) as being just in the interest of Western powers like the USA.

Question: Why should we keep funding NASA?
Answer: >  So, what makes these investments worth while?

We don't know ahead of time, which is the biggest reason. Advances made in the space program are both obvious (satellites) and subtle (enriched baby food, or structural analysis software). It leads to detecting threats to our infrastructure (solar storms) and insight into our environment (runaway greenhouse effect).

The point of exploration is that we don't know what is out there. The USA was founded by explorers, everything we have is the result of someone forging into the unknown. If your friend cannot see the potential gain from exploration then they are simply shortsighted.

Question: What makes PewDiePie so popular?
Answer: The reason you find him childish and pointless is because his videos aren't made for you. PewDiePie is actually something of a genius because he knows his audience inside and out and knows how to entertain them. His target? Teenagers. They eat his stuff up because they're still at the stage where randomness is the funniest thing around. Sure, they'll grow out of it when they get a bit older, but there will always be more teenagers to take their place.

EDIT: Had to do a bit of cleanup, but I also want to add that teenagers can be some of the most loyal fans around. My younger cousin (she's 14) loves PewDiePie and talks about him to anyone who is willing to listen. That kind of rabid word of mouth isn't usually something you get from adults, and since PewDiePie is so good at making these kids laugh, they're singing his praises in schools all across the world. That's some seriously powerful marketing.

EDIT #2: Guys, replying to me and saying "I'm a teenager and I don't like PewDiePie" means nothing. I'm in my mid twenties and I don't like nor do I use Twitter. Just as well, very few of my friends - who are in their mid-to-late twenties too - use it. However, the fact remains that millions upon millions of people in my age group use and enjoy Twitter. Your personal preference is not necessarily representative of your entire age group.

Question: Physicist James Gates claims that you can find computer code in the equations that we use to describe our universe in string theory.
Answer: You're asking for a hell of a lot!

So, the "computer codes" he is talking about are, on the one hand, representations of complex algebraic systems in superstring theory, and on the other hand (in the computer system) they're Shannon codes — creating a set of unique, compact symbols that point to larger, less compact things. Shannon coding was discovered and then used to do things like create zip files, image compression, audio compression, and modem protocols and digital transmission protocols. 

Gödel's incompleteness theorem … wouldn't necessarily touch on shannon coding, except that they both depend on the same underlying phenomenon, which in information theory is called Shannon coding and in mathematics is called Gödel numbers —

Gödel did something very important in formal mathematics, logic, and information theory.

First, he hypothesised (and then proved) that, for every entity in a sufficiently complex universe of discourse (including much of mathematics and logic), there is a unique symbol (shannon coding intersection here) which he called a Gödel number. 

In plain english: in math, everything — every algebra, every calculus, every equation, every geometric figure, every system of manipulating symbols, every rule set, *everything* — has a Gödel number that identifies with it.

The second thing he did was use those Gödel numbers to prove that in any formal logical system of sufficient complexity, that system may be consistent, or complete, *but not both*. 

He did this by creating a minimal formal logical representation of the idea represented by the plain English sentence "this sentence is false" — which is either consistent as a nonsense string of data that isn't evaluated, or complete as part of a system that is evaluated, but cannot be both.

I don't know how the Incompleteness theorem intersects with James Gates' works, as I'm not *that* familiar with what his work precisely claims regarding superstrings, supersymmetry and supergravity, etcetera. My knowledge is limited to what he's discussing as regards information theory. I don't know how he arrived at deciding that there were binary strings in these mathematical structures, either.

So, they're not exactly computer code. They're highly efficient methods of representing systems that mirror Shannon coding and jibe with information theory regarding Shannon efficiency (how far data can be compressed).

EDIT: it occurs to me that there is a kind of relationship between shannon codes and "computer coding" — every instruction for RISC CPUs (the instruction sets for most CPUs, really) have an attribute that they share with shannon coding, in that they are unambiguous, and unique — put four of them together in a line and start reading the line at any given point, and you'll be able to always identify the start of the instructions. The last half of one and the first half of another, pit together, can't possibly be confused for the first and last half of an instruction. It's called prefix coding. _URL_1_

Which ties back around to Gödel's incompleteness theorem — prefix codes allow for the transmission of a message completely and consistently without out-of-band markers; Gödel's reason for formulating the Incompleteness theorem was to demonstrate that self-reference is, or necessitates, a kind of out-of-band marker.

Edit edit: in this presentation _URL_0_
He seems to be saying that the mathematical systems he sees that represent the way quantum systems behave, behave in the same way as block-linear self-dual error correcting codes (specific type of shannon codes) — have similar attributes. 

BLECC — That's not algorithms, that's the way information is formatted for transmission in order to prevent corruption during transmission, by introducing special redundancies that allow the computer on the other side of the comms link to recreate corrupted parts. He seems to be analogising this to the "spooky action at a distance" seen with quantum entangled particles. 

EDIT EDIT EDIT: his actual paper: _URL_2_

Abstract, emphases mine:

------------


**Relating** Doubly-Even Error-Correcting Codes, Graphs, and Irreducible Representations of N-Extended Supersymmetry

C.F. Doran, M.G. Faux, S.J. Gates Jr, T. Hubsch, K.M. Iga, G.D. Landweber
(Submitted on 31 May 2008)
Previous work has shown that the *classification* of indecomposable off-shell representations of N-supersymmetry, depicted as Adinkras, may be factored into specifying the topologies available to Adinkras, and then the height-assignments for each topological type. The latter problem being solved by a recursive mechanism that generates all height-assignments within a topology, it remains to classify the former. Herein we show that this problem is *equivalent to* classifying certain (1) graphs and (2) error-correcting codes.

---------------


What you need to know is in the emphasised words — he is asserting a *relationship*, by showing that the solution to his *classification* of (indecomposable off-shell representations of N-supersymmetry) ("Adinkras") is *equivalent* to the classification of certain types of error-correcting codes in information theory. 

This doesn't prove a relationship, but it is highly compelling. They're not algorithms, just information structures that allow algorithms to reconstruct missing parts of those structures, and that is the attribute he observes in the Adinkras, and seems to see that as responsible for quantum entanglement behaviour, among other attributes.

Does that answer the question?

Question: Why are emulators so tricky to make?
Answer: Emulation does not improve as the technology gets older. 
 
Emulation's difficulty depends on how different the platform is that is being emulated from the platform you want to emulate on. In the end it all comes down to the fact that emulators are non-profit, unofficial projects. Creators don't have the necessary documentation and they also have to avoid using copyright methods. This is the reason why emulators usually don't come with a BIOS.

That's why they never work perfectly and their development takes a lóng time. If Sony, for example, would make an official PS2/PS3 emulator for the PC, they could get it to work perfectly.

Question: With an inherently limited number of sources from past centuries to examine, will there come a time that we "run out of history?"
Answer: It's doubtful. The more we find out about history the more wrong we tend to discover we were about things. Even very recent history is full of misconceptions, falsehoods, and propaganda to dig through.

Question: Why do kittens go into a state of paralysis when grabbed by the scruff?
Answer: you can also use scruff training for teaching discipline, but only for kittens not adult cats. I wish I'd known this when I adopted mine as kittens. My 3 cats are all rescues, grew up with no mum so they have a bad habit of biting, nipping  &  generally bratty behavior that kitty mom would discipline out of them. _URL_0_

Question: why did the fur on our bodies dissapear if some humans moved to colder climates?
Answer: Humans originated in the hot savannah of Africa. The leading theory on how people back then hunted was running down animals for many miles. This was reliant on tiring the animal out from constantly running to where the human could get close and kill it. Because of the heat generated by running in the 100+ degree savanah, humans evolved to dump heat as efficiently as possible. This meant that we lost a lot of fur (except for some around the head and other places to shield from UV exposure)

[Here's a video of modern African tribesman hunting using the techniques described above.](_URL_0_)

Fast forward couple hundred thousand years and people moved north. By this time people were intelligent and instead of waiting for evolution to take place which would have happened over thousands of years. The people realized they can take the fur of other animals and use it for themselves. This caused body heat preserving fur to no longer be an evolutionary variable. In essence, someone who was furrier than another wouldn't necessarily be more suited to survive and pass on their genes than someone who was hairless because both a furry person and a non furry person would both survive because of fur coats.

Question: What causes bioluminescent plankton to ONLY light up when agitated?
Answer: chemical reaction of luciferins in the plankton which reacts with luciferase to create light and oxyluciferin.

Question: Why are batteries charge measured in mAh instead of Coulombs?
Answer: No real reason. It's just because that if you know that your circuit draws 100mA and your battery has a 1000mAh capacity then you know that your battery is going to last 10  hours. Easier than using C and then diving by 3600 second to get the number of hours.

Same reason we measure energy in kWh instead of J

Question: Does exercise and eating healthy "unclog" our arteries? Or do our arteries build up plaque permanently?
Answer: Yes. Having a diet that's higher in HDL cholesterol and low in LDL cholesterol will see the macrophages that make up atherosclerosis (plaque) lose their LDL cholesterol and have it transported back to the liver to be excreted in bile. This will slowly reduce the volume of the plaque and start to bring the artery back to normal.

Question: How are phobias acquired?
Answer: It's kinda like a psychological allergy. With an allergy, your immune system is overdoing a normal healthy response. A phobia is when generally healthy fears are exaggerated. 

When you have a phobia of something you shouldn't be scared of, there's normally a situational association. Like if you got lost when you were young and when trying to find your mom you got really scared by a cat. Now your scared of cats. These phobias can often be treated with exposure therapy.

Most interesting are non-associative phobias, which are thought to be genetic because they establish themselves the very first time you're exposed to something.

Question: What is this bizarre intersection?
Answer: It's called a [diverging diamond interchange](_URL_1_). It's considered one of the best recent innovations in interchange design because of all the [benefits it provides](_URL_0_).

 >  It seems to make interchanging with I-77 easier

Yep. That's just one of the benefits.

 >  I imagine that it's super confusing for those unfamiliar with the intersection

The first few times, maybe. But once you see them once or twice they're really no more complicated or confusing than any other intersection.

Question: In times of severe to hyperinflation, why can't the government mandate a price ceiling to counteract?
Answer: Hyperinflation comes almost always because of a specific supply-shock problem.  Something has increased uncertainty of the economy so so much that goods do not have any sort of reliable delivery in adequate amounts.  

Severe uncertainty can come from people hoarding in fear of a war or in fear of supplies cut off.  It can also come from government printers of paper cash "degrading" the value of the cash by giving it to their friends.  Everyone starts to mistrust the value of cash in their pocket ... believes that things won't be the same price tomorrow ... and may change to bartering or the black market.

If sellers must slow down sales until something is always available and they use high prices to get more goods imported or made.  This means raising prices over and over to make sure you are getting the best profit and can survive another day as a useful place to buy.  Running out is an absolute failure and changes the prices from "high" to infinite... or basically a complete failure.  Paying for empty shelves can ruin and disappoint everyone and hyperinflation is a time when many businesses simply fail and must close.   

If a government mandates prices be locked in place, then stores will simply run out because those with goods to sell upstream of the markets will set prices on their own ...and send them to the black markets instead... or sell them in another country for other types of money.

Question: using coffee grounds to filter out lead ions from water.
Answer: scientists tested whether or not coffee grounds could be used to filter lead out of water. they found some interesting things out, firstly if more coffee grounds are being used more lead is removed from the water. Secondly neither water temperature nor bean type have any effect on the amount of lead removed. If the coffee grounds were used first though they worked better than fresh grounds, and finally this method was made less effective if the beans were treated with perchloric acid and if the treatment solution contained 10% or more of the acid the grounds stopped absorbing lead at all. and while this study does suggest at some point that grounds can be used in home filtration systems at this point odds are it would be very risky as you don't know how much lead is in the water or how much is being absorbed.

Question: Why is there such a growing anti-intellectual sentiment growing around the world?
Answer: Where to even begin? There is simply so much to discuss with this question. It can be broken down into 2 main facets.

The first is that intellectuals are generally in charge of policy. It may be politicians that make the rules, but the rules are only as strong as the enforcement of said rules. With that in mind, intellectuals/bureaucrats often have a great deal of influence in what goes on. As a result of this, there is a feeling that the crisis of 08, loss of manufacturing jobs, etc; all happened under the watch of intellectuals. Of course, the intellectuals didn't directly cause either of those things, but with our magical hindsight vision we find ways to blame them for all the shit that went wrong.

The second is that there is a perception intellectuals are far removed from the consequences of their mistakes. While intellectuals don't make as many mistakes as non intellectuals in the same positions, they are less effected by them because they are highly skilled and can bounce back far easier. Non-intellectuals on the other hand often face unemployment or they need to take on a completely different job/accept benefits from the government in the wake of a change in whatever industry they worked in.

Question: How do we know life on other planets will be of the same type as life on Earth?
Answer: I took a class in college about this actually, it had nothing to do with my major, but you don't pass up the chance to take a college class on aliens.

It's been a few years, but from what I can remember, you're right, we don't know that life would be exactly like ours, but based on what we know now, that seems the most likely. As we understand it, life needs to have a solvent fluid. On Earth, this means water. There's a few other options that would work in theory (liquid methane if memory serves), but there's problems with each of these that seem to make water the best option.

Because we have such limited resources dedicated to the search for ET intelligence, we pretty well limit our search to those places and conditions that seem the most likely.

Question: Why does the World Cup have varying competition formats for different regions?
Answer: >  South America only has 1 round

South America (CONMEBOL) only has ten members.  Their qualifying tournament is a full round-robin with 18 games.  They can do their entire qualifying process in one step.  

Most of the members are relatively strong, and there aren't any 'big gaps' between the best and worst teams.  By _URL_0_, the best team is ranked #1 (Brazil), and the lowest ranked team is #55 Bolivia.

 >   Asia has 4 rounds before the play-off.

Asia (AFC) has a lot of teams, 50 by my count.  And only 7 out of the 50 teams in Asia have as high a ranking as the lowest South American team.  So there are several rounds to eliminate many of the lower ranking teams, before introducing the higher ranked teams.  This also helps with fewer disruptions for players and their club teams.

Round 1 of AFC was only teams ranked #171 - #209 by FIFA.  Round 2, to help budgets of Asian teams, was agreed to be both a World Cup qualifying and an Asian Championship qualifying.  The teams were broken into eight groups of five.  However, there needed to be a 3rd round (two groups of six) to narrow the field down to the four world Cup spots (top two teams), and a playoff for the 3rd place teams to go through to the "half-qualifier" match with a CONCACAF team.

 >  Europe has no play-offs and only has 2 rounds.

Europe has a lot of teams, and most are fairly high in quality.  A lot of teams have players with large club commitments, so they want to minimize the matches.  So more groups with fewer teams.  However, it's hard to get thirteen qualifying teams from nine groups, so they take all the group winners, and 'half' the 2nd place finishers, narrowed by a playoff.

 >  CONCACAF

I'm an American, and our qualifying is similar to Asia, but we have a special situation, where a few teams (Mexico, US) have been very powerful, and a large number of teams (especially in the Caribbean) are very weak.  So we use *three rounds* to lower the number of teams, and then a round of group stages (3 groups of 4) lead to 'the hex' of six teams in one group, which decides the three qualifiers and the one 'half-qualifier'.

Question: Why do I always feel like I need to piss right after I cum?
Answer: Because its your body's natural reflex to return your urethra to the proper pH to avoid bacteria growth and also to clean out and residual semen. If you fap, don't pee and go to bed. When you wake up to pee you might notice it splits in two streams, that's cause your piss is being blocked by a little bit of jism

Question: Why is when my body is freezing (like making snow balls without gloves) and I go and put them under a hot sink they ich like crazy?
Answer: When your hands get cold the blood vessels in them contract. When you run them under *hot* water they expand rapidly, stretching them and the area around them, causing discomfort.

Question: How did Britain come to command such a vast empire in the early 1900's?
Answer: The English started colonising other countries very early on. We could say that England itself is a result of being colonised as the Normans invaded in 1066 and conquered England. 

England went on to colonise Wales, Ireland and then Scotland. From the 17th century, England went on to colonise North America. The English were very successful at driving out the Swedish, the Dutch and the French from North America. 

The English then put much effort into populating the 13 colonies. Much of this population came from slave labour, which is still known as "indentured servants" in North America. It was a convenient method for the English to get rid of vagrants and other anti-social elements in society, while providing the colonies with cheap labour.  

Then the English colonised Australia, New Zealand and South Africa. 

The English also set up many colonies in Africa and colonised a very divided South Asia in the 19th century.

One of the strongest attributes which the English had was the strategic funding of their colonies. Whereas other European powers treated their colonies as "quick-get-rich" schemes, the English had more long term goals in mind.

Question: Can animals recognize music as music?
Answer: Apparently the part of the human brain that's stimulated by melody is left untouched by just about every other animal.  According to brain imaging, your dog has no sense of rhythm. Your cat certainly doesn't "get" that CD you're listening to, and your hamster can't even remember and recognise a simple melody played over and over.

Perhaps it's because animals live more "in the moment", so the fact that we introduce time from our observation is what enables us to take the isolated notes and see them as a bigger picture - but that's taking us into quantum physics and not really explaining it like you're five.

If you're really interested, think about an arrow in flight. If you were to freeze time, you would know where the arrow was, but you couldn't say how fast it was travelling, or where it would land. In any given moment, the arrow is frozen in its point. You can search for more on this if you're bothered. But my suggestion would be that dogs (for example) only hear the notes that are being played "now", rather than making sense of the whole musical bar or getting the underlying rhythm from 16 repeated sounds.

I agree that some birds can mimic other sounds, but they are just as likely to mimic the sound of a car starting or aircon fans powering up as they are to mimic a tune.

TLDR - No.

Question: Explain e=mc^2.
Answer: Energy and mass are the exact same thing, in different forms.  You can take a heavy atom and split it into two smaller atoms that have a combined weight less than the original.  The missing mass is converted to energy.  This is how a nuclear reactor creates electricity.  On the other hand, if you take two particles and accelerate them to near the speed of light, they gain massive amounts of kinetic energy.  If you then collide them into each other, all sorts of short-lived particles pop into existence from nowhere.  This is what happens in a particle collider like the large hadron collider.

Question: Why is it worthwhile to separate colors from whites in laundry?
Answer: In the past, you would often add bleach to whites to help clean them. However, it would destroy colored dyes, so you would need to separate them first.

Question: Why does the TSA require a max limit per bottle of liquid/gel but no limit on the number of bottles?
Answer: Because the TSA's rules are arbitrary and meaningless.

Question: Why is the bathroom light switch in hotels outside the door?
Answer: It is a precaution so that you don't electrocute yourself trying to turn off or on something with wet hands. In UK,only pull cords are allowed inside bathrooms. Having switches inside bathroom may land you to into legal trouble.

Question: How do scientists determine the calorie content of a food item? And the nutrient content?
Answer: They literally burn it, as far as I can tell. We got to do this in Chemistry with Pringles and a can of water suspended above the burning Pringles. We used a butt load of foil to direct all the hear towards the can. 

_URL_0_

Edit* My guess is that they use lasers to burn a piece and then measure the heat given off. As far as nutrient content I am not sure of the methodology.

Question: Formal/Informal Language
Answer: Even in an egalitarian society like the US, there are vast differences in the language that you use, depending on who you're talking to. For example, you don't expect to walk into a store and have the sales assistant greet you with, "How ya doin', bud?" And if your best friend greeted you with, "Good afternoon, sir, and how are you today?" you'd think they were trying to be funny.

The Japanese system of honorifics is very complex and very rigid, which means that you have to take very great care choosing the appropriate form. But the English system of expressing respect or familiarity is much more subtle and not so easily codifed as a set of rules. Luckily for Japanese people learning English, the system is much more flexible.

For example, you could probably guess which situations these sentences would most likely be spoken in:

* Excuse me, could you help me? (to a complete stranger)
* Give me a hand, would you? (to somebody of equal social status)
* Help me out here, will you? (expresses annoyance or impatience)
* And how are we feeling today? (doctor to patient)
* How's things? (among close friends/relatives)
* Do me a favour and shut up. (among close friends/relatives)
* I'm sorry, madam, but I'm afraid I must ask you to lower your voice. (librarian)

Question: How can people be convicted for offensive statements?
Answer: Are you American?

I ask because this is really weird for many Americans. In the rest of the world, it's pretty much agreed that inflicting emotional distress through offensive comments should be illegal. There's room for debate about just *how* offensive the comments must be, but it's basically only the USA that doesn't accept the basic premise.

Question: Why does exposing factual information about a company lead to a successful lawsuit against you?
Answer: It depends on how that information was obtained and what kind of information you're talking about.  If it's not public information, (i.e. a company secret), think of it like insider trading.  This information is an asset of the company, and by making it public, you stole this asset of the company.

If it's whistleblowing of illegal activities, that is different.  There are laws to protect whistleblowers.  If it's simply unethical, then it is like theft of company property to expose their business practices.

Question: Why aren't germicidal ultraviolet lights used everywhere, to prevent the spread of disease?
Answer: They use a wavelength of light that is cancer causing. Do you want to sit under a cancer causing light?

Plus, they aren't all that effective to stop, say a sneeze from transmitting to another person. It takes some time to kill the germs.

Question: How is kilogram a unit or mass and not weight? (flair physics)
Answer: Mass is a unit of how much "stuff" is in something - if two objects have the same number of particles (subatomic stuff - protons, neutrons, electrons), then they'll have the same mass, anywhere in the universe.

Weight is a little different, because it's actually a unit of force - in most cases, it's the force of gravity we're talking about.  And that'll change anywhere - you weigh slightly less at the top of Mt. Everest than you do in Death Valley, CA, because of your distance from the Earth.  On the Moon, you weigh even less.  But since weight is a force, we can also use it to measure, say, the force of a punch.  

So in everyday use, "mass" and "weight" are mostly interchangeable, because we figure that gravity isn't changing much across the Earth.  But they're not exactly the same thing, because weight is based on more than just the mass.

Question: Why wouldn't game developers make exact copies of good old games but with better graphics?
Answer: Well thats actually something that has been happening a lot in the game industry recently. There have been quite a few remakes / remasters. This year alone we got a re-releases of the last of us, kingdom hearts 2 and 4 Halo games so it's a thing that is happening.

I think though that you more asking why don't they just create whole new games that just play like the old ones right? Well because people would get mad and not buy them. Consumers want to see some sort of improvement or progression when the see a sequel or newer version of a game. If you're not going to change the game in some way(for better or worse) why should they buy it? Many consumers would just stick to playing the older games.

Question: What is inflation and what causes it?
Answer: Inflation occurs when your currency looses its value. Because there is a finite number of money in the world it has a specific value. if you burn/ destroy half of it, its value doubles and if you print more bank notes, it will inflate again.

When a countries economy collapses and the state starts to print more money to keep itself from getting bankrupt the money value decreases. abruptly this lead to so called hyperinflation in the past:

Italy's Lire for example was worth roughly 1/1000 German Mark.

Because the value decreases you need more money to buy the same stuff you bought before with less money:

maybe your bread cost 2$ yesterday and today you have to pay 4$

Question: Why is suspension from school a punishment? Isn't that just giving them what they want?
Answer: 1. Removes a potentially dangerous or disruptive child from school.

2. Wake up call from the school to the parent.

Unfortunately most repeat offenders aren't going to care about some other scolding from mom and a chance to not be expected to go to school.

As a teacher though, I've found that kids that have behavior problems are the ones that typically never miss a day of school nor do they want to. For disruptive kids, school may be the only place where they're getting attention.

EDIT: To be clear, OSS has been found to be largely ineffective for repeat offenders (the basis of this question), though its effects as a looming consequence for others has been less conclusive. 

Most schools nowadays are trending towards training teachers in counseling skills to attempt to deal with issues in the classroom, but these are either expensive to do right (counseling skills require sometimes extensive training, teachers I highly recommend the Flippen Group's *Capturing Kids' Hearts*) or are ineffectively taught (district sends one person to a seminar who then teaches it to others and so on). 

However to truly bring down OSS numbers staffing of counselors is a major issue. Most schools have cut dedicated counseling positions since 2008 and the result has been disastrous. Please support your local schools by petitioning your state for an increase in funds to school districts and by asking schools boards to restore these cut positions (as well as seeking counseling training for all teachers).

Question: Why are button batteries so expensive?
Answer: Very often, miniaturisation *does* make things more expensive. 

However, I think you might simply be shopping in the wrong place. You can get packs of 20 LR44 button cells for well under $10 (or even 100 of them for slightly over $10) - it's a matter of shopping around.

Question: What causes currency devaluation?
Answer: Let's say there are ten children in a playground, and they all want gold beads. Each child has one or two of these beads, but occasionally they'll trade it with another child for a new toy or a packet of sweets. Now, Jimmy, one of these children, tells his mother to go and get him so golden beads, so she comes back with a pack of 20. Suddenly, Jimmy has 20 more beads than anyone else - they all only have 1 or 2! He can buy all the toys and sweets he wants, and he does! After this success, he tells his mother to go and get some more, and she does - now Jimmy has another 20 beads! However, when he goes into school the next day, everyone's realised that they all have 4 or 5 beads, and a single bead is no longer worth as much (because everyone has them now!), and so they want more beads per sweet. Suddenly a packet of sweets that cost Jimmy 1 bead yesterday is now going to cost him 3 or 4, because all of the other children do not think the beads are worth as much now they all have them!

This is the basic principle behind inflation and currency devaluation - while inflation certainly isn't the only thing that can cause currency devaluation, it's perhaps one of the most well known. As more and more of the currency gets introduced, the people find it's worth less.

Question: What is so enjoyable about tobacco? Explain the attraction or positive value of cigarettes, cigars, snuff, and etc. other tobacco products.
Answer: As with a lot of things, the enjoyment inst necessarily from the object itself but from how it makes you feel.

I started smoking when i was 10 years old. At the time, It was simply an adult thing, and I wanted to feel older and do things only adults did. I would get together with a friend of mine and we would steal cigarettes from our parents and go and hide somewhere and smoke them and feel old or cool.

Eventually it gets to the point where you enjoy the feeling you get from it, both mentally and physically and you have no reason to stop. I was far too young to have any clue about the medical issues and it quickly turns into addiction.

In 1989 when I started smoking, everyone smoked. you could smoke anywhere and everywhere. Inside restaurants, theatres, office buildings, clubs, etc. so its not so difficult to see why lots of kids were taking up the habit like their parents.

I have been smoke free for 21 days and i still miss it. I enjoy smoking, inhaling, exhaling, the social aspect of it, and the feeling you get after a cigarette.  It's ridiculous but it is what it is.

Question: Why was America reluctant to join the allies in WWII before Pearl Harbour?
Answer: The US was a lot more isolationist back then. Not only that, but they weren't the military powerhouse that they are today. The military might of the US was mostly untested. WWII is really when the US came into the forefront in that arena. It also wasn't that long after WWI; the US wasn't keen on getting themselves into something like that again. The US was also recovering from the great depression -- there were bigger things to worry about.

I'm sure they thought it was a terrible idea, but they weren't in the business of involving themselves into affairs that did not directly affect them. Obviously, that has changed. :)

Question: Why don't seizures cause the heart to spasm erratically like other muscles?
Answer: Seizures start in the brain and send electrical signals to the muscles. But the heart has its own separate electrical system.

Question: Coughed up a tiny tooth?
Answer: Try to break it open. If it's tooth or bone, it'll have a soft (most likely degraded) interior where the marrow or pulp was.

More likely is that it's either a tonsil stone that somehow didn't get stinky, or it's a piece of gravel that got kicked up into her mouth. If you can't break it, it's probably gravel, as a bone or tooth of that size will fracture relatively easily.

Question: why does the mentos and diet coke geyser have to be diet coke?
Answer: The process is called nucleation. See those bubbles that form on the sides of your glass when you fill it with soda? They're bubbles of carbon dioxide, formed when the tiny cracks and crevices in the glass give them a place to form. A typical mint Menthos candy is covered in millions of microscopic pits, which give the carbon dioxide an dramatically large number of places to form bubbles. The reason it works better with Diet Coke is because of the presence of aspartame, a very low-calorie sweetener, which lowers the surface tension of the soda that would otherwise inhibit the bubble-forming process. [This](_URL_0_) video explains it pretty well. If not, you can search it in YouTube and find lots of explanations.

Question: Masturbation, oral sex, and other non-intercourse from an evolutionary perspective
Answer: its a way to bond and resolve conflict within groups. like with the bonobos.

Question: How is love any different to being overly-attached?
Answer: Love is about wanting what is best for *them.*

Being overly attached is all about *you.*

Question: Why do we always think that dreams are real life despite them usually being obscure and unrealistic?
Answer: While dreaming, the part of your brain that determines if things are obscure and unrealistic is operating at a diminished capacity.

In a sense, you are just not smart enough to realize there is anything wrong with an illogical situation.

Question: Why is the Mona Lisa worth so much money?
Answer: Think of it this way, little 5-year-old Billy/Sally: you have a really cool toy. All your friends look at that toy and want it. But you hold on to it, because it's special to you. Over the years, far into the future when you grow old, people still look at your toy and wish it was theirs, and think it looks really cool.

After you pass away, people write songs about the toy and movies are written and watched with your toy in it. Suddenly, more and more people like your toy and want it. Some people are willing to pay a lot of money for your toy, but it's in a museum instead where everybody can see it. They can't touch it or play with it, but they can look at it. So people keep trying to buy it for more and more money, and this makes it cost a lot.

Now stop chewing on the couch cushions and go clean your room.

Question: why is it that big dogs drool alot while small dogs tend not to drool at all?
Answer: Larger animals have to work harder to keep cool. Volume, which determines the amount of heat produced, goes up with the cube of the length of the animal but surface area, which determines the rate that heat is lost, goes up with the square. Dogs cool off by panting while producing drool instead of sweating. Large dogs have to drool more to maintain their body temperature in the same way that overweight humans sweat more to keep cool.

Question: Why are springy doorstops made with maximum compression? Wouldn't they be more effective if they could be compressed to cushion the door's impact?
Answer: The coil is just for flexibility (as others have said). If the spring was not compressed though when the door was pushed into it the spring would compress, absorbing the impact (good), however it would the release this compression, flinging the door back towards the person opening it (bad). The more force the door was opened with potentially the faster the door would be returned towards the opener. This would probably cause a lot of accidents. However you would get some great YouTube compilations.

Question: Why do different people like different climates?
Answer: I live in the Las Vegas Valley and chances are if you lived here long enough you grew a tolerance to heat, went to Norwalk (east of los angeles) and I was FREEZING. 

After long periods of time we get used to the temperatures in our enviroment, the same way early humans adopted to breathing atmospheric oxygen.

Question: How is fire able to be on the surface of water?
Answer: There's something else on top of the water that is burning, like oil or fuel or flotsam.

Question: Why are taxes on gasoline a fixed dollar amount when nearly every other tax is a percent of the sale?
Answer: The price of oil (and by extension, gas) fluctuates wildly in response to geopolitical events and supply factors that state governments have no control over.

Rather than try to budget in advance for such an impossibly unpredictable revenue source many governing bodies opt to impose a tax on volume instead.  It's not perfectly predictable either, but it's a lot easier to plan for.

You'd hate to budget for a 10% tax on $5 a gallon gas and then have the price crash to $1.30 a gallon for nine months.

Question: If steroids were around since the 1930's how do we know older players didn't use them?
Answer: Older players didn't use steroids because they used much stronger performance enhancing drugs such as speed.

Question: Why Do Most Games These Days Indicate Loading With An Icon Instead of a Bar?
Answer: One less feature to support.

Loading bars are actually pretty hard to do correctly. How much work is left to be done? What percentage of it is done? Keeping track of that adds development overhead to some overworked teams, and usually isn't particularly accurate.

Modern game UIs tend to be heavyweight, too. Many of them involve libraries such as Scaleform (Flash), or even full 3D rendering, and it can be easier to skip all that and just throw an image up -- both in terms of development and runtime performance.

Also, many games try to have shorter loading times, now.

In my experience, the main thing people need to know is that the application hasn't crashed. A "throbber" can usually accomplish that.

Question: How does electroplating work?
Answer: You stick what you want to electroplate into a pool of metal ions. You then run a current through it (opposite to the ion charge sign you want to attract). The metal ions will stick to the thing you are electroplating.

There are tons of applications, from aesthetics (gold plating), adding conductivity (copper). You can even coat with anti rust substances, or harder materials to increase durability.

Question: How come all those gift cards for Steam, iTunes, Google Play, etc. have the exact same proportions and layout?
Answer: It's probably the same size as most credit cards, drivers licenses and so on.

That size is normed as "ID-1": _URL_0_

Valve, Apple and Google just decided to use that, because they fit well in wallets and it's a nice know size.

Question: How did Kirby Dick's documentary "This Film Is Not Yet Rated" show him appealing and discussing the movie with the MPAA,in the movie?
Answer: The film the MPAA reviews often is not completely finished.  MPAA rating can be time consuming,  so they send the movie early and finish up special effects and such, or even added scenes.

Question: How is a Gendarmerie different from a National Guard or Police Force?
Answer: The Gendarmerie is a police force, but part of the military.  

They are different from military police because their jurisdiction is among civilian citizen populations rather than military personnel.  They are different from the National Guard because they are a law enforcement agency rather than reserve troops for the military.  They are different from the city police because their jurisdiction is national.

Question: why did some men have misstresses in the past but now the term isn't used much?
Answer: Women didn't like it back then either, but it wasn't easy for women to get jobs, or at least good paying jobs. A lot of social stigma for a divorced or separated woman. So they had to put up with a lot of men being jerks. Cheating, physical and metal abuse, etc. 

Today women are more educated and independent, treat a woman badly and it's much easier for her to leave. So now there's a greater penalty for cheating.

Question: Why do we hear new songs on repeat and love them but after a while we hate them?
Answer: Your brain is full of synapses--connections that fire when activated by stimuli, in this case, a song. 

You can think of it as a movie. The first few times you watch it you notice things you didn't the previous time. Once you watch it enough, you know each line of the characters.

The same goes for a song. When your brain remembers each note and line in a song, the synapses have been cemented into your brain and you know what happens in the song. And in this, it is just like a movie where there is no adventure or excitement in watching it because you already know what happens.

*note: I don't know anything but this sounds right*

Question: How does a roomba work without damaging itself, such as falling down stairs etc?
Answer: The roomba has proximity sensors and spends its time mapping the room. It knows where hazards are and can avoid them. Just don't pick them up, or they might accidentally fall down stairs if it's not where they expect itself to be.

And yes, they do actually clean, although not as well as a traditional vacuum. It's good for a daily cleaning so that dirt doesn't accumulate, but it won't get rid of deeply embedded dirt.

Question: why does a scissor not work for left handed people but does for right handed?
Answer: scissors are actually made for right handed people typically, it's the way the right hand applies pressure on the handle aligns the blades. When you try and use your left hand, the blades separate and nothing cuts.

Question: what happens when a clothed cat falls over?
Answer: Exactly that.  They feel restricted, like they cannot move, so they stop trying.  This may help An Engineer's Guide to Cats 2.0 - The Sequel: _URL_0_

Also, not all cats to it.  Mine doesn't.

Question: Why do some people tan and some get sunburned?
Answer: Being sunburnt is your bodies reaction to excess UV light. The pigment that colors our skin (ie. Tans) is called melanin. Those who have more tanned/darker skin have more melanin. Melanin serves as the first layer of protection from UV rays, once this layer has been overloaded, then the skin will start to become sunburnt. So let's say the skin is exposed to enough UV rays. The skin will realise that this amount is harmful and start producing more melanin. This is why a lot of people have a tan after recovering from sunburn. This mechanism can still be triggered even if the person doesn't get sunburnt. On the other hand, people who are very pale and cannot get a tan no matter how much sun they expose themselves to likely have some form of melanin deficiency.

Question: Why is tear gas internationally banned for use in warfare, but not for use by police?
Answer: All chemical weapons are banned for use in warfare, not just tear gas.

If the police are firing gas canisters at a rioting crowd, I (unlike a soldier in the field) can be pretty sure it doesn't contain VX.

Question: Do fish drink water?
Answer: This seems like a legitimate question a five year old would ask.

Question: Why do adults need less sleep than children?
Answer: Every noticed how when you're taking in a lot of new impressions you get more tired? Like when traveling, living in a new environment etc.

Not only are childrens brains under intense development physiologically, they also need to learn an immense amount of new skills, from basic ones like just getting the hang of your body, talking and developing a social intelligence, to things like math or school stuff in general.

As we enter puberty, and even more so once the brain matures in our early twenties, the brain starts to enter a more static state. It starts removing paths and structures in the brain it doesn't consider necessary. This makes our brain a lot more efficient, and allows us to refine our skills and expend less energy on maintaining it. Since we don't need to maintain the brain quite as much and continually make so much room for new things, we also don't need as much time to process everything, as we do when we sleep.

Interesting side note: There are some studies that have linked neuropsychiatric issues like ADHD and ASD(autism spectrum disorders) to the brain not "shedding" its less important structures. I know me and my SO who both have ADHD and ASD have more need for sleep than other people I know, and are highly susceptible to mental fatigue, which makes sense with the above explanation.

Question: Why do Americans not have an English accent anymore? When did we lose it?
Answer: So this is a topic I actually find quite interesting, but I feel like I'm going to have to address a few issues to fully answer your question. To begin with I'm just going to point out that I'll use the term dialect instead of accent, I have my reasons for this but they aren't important to understanding everything else I'm going to say. Anyway so for starters I want to address an important concept that anyone reading this might not be aware of, namely that there isn't a universal "English Accent" and "American Accent". Each of these areas are actually made up of several dialect regions, which are areas that have unique features that set them apart from other dialect regions. These features will be things like pronunciation (for example someone from New England in America most likely wouldn't pronounce the Rs in the phrase "park your car"), word choice (for example whether a speaker says "coke", "soda", or "pop" to refer to drinks like Coke, Pespi, Mountain Dew, etc.) or grammatical variation (for example saying "I seen that" instead of "I saw that" or "I be fine" instead of "I am fine"). The reason I bring up these regions is that the regions vary in terms of how linguistically conservative they are. So while it is generally true that American English is much more similar to the English spoken in England during the 16th and 17th century it actually depends on which variety of American English someone is talking about. If I'm remembering this correctly dialects in the Northeast in America are actually very linguistically conservative and have remained fairly similar to the English that was spoken in the East Anglia region in England in the 17th and 18th centuries, since a majority of the English immigrants to the Northeast in America came from East Anglia. This isn't to say that American English doesn't change at all or as much as British English, in fact there is a change taking place in cities like St. Paul, Minnesota and other North Central cities called the Northern Cities Chain Shift, which is basically a vowel pronunciation change, but it is change nonetheless. So the shortest possible answer from all this is American English is more similar to British English of the 17th and 18th centuries, but both have changed, it's just that British English has changed more. If I didn't answer your question or you 're still confused feel free to ask more questions and I'll try my best to answer them, also I google image searched these two maps showing dialect regions of America and Britian so people would have an idea of what I'm talking about, enjoy!
_URL_1_
_URL_0_

Question: Why are people from Manchester called Mancunians?
Answer: Manchester's original Latin place name was either *Mamucium* or *Mancunium*, depending on the source and time. Over many centuries, this ended up becoming the name *Manchester* that's used today. *Mancunian* is simply derived from the older place name.

A side note, but it's not uncommon in the UK for demonyms to be derived from an older root:

* Liverpool: Liverpudlian.

* Manchester: Mancunian.

* Newcastle: Novocastrian.

Question: Do other languages need the use of a Thesarus or is it only English that has so many synonyms?
Answer: Thesauruses and synonyms exist pretty much in every language. Synonyms are there to describe very similar objects or situations in slightly different ways to give a more precise picture. Most languages have some space to allow for such variations.

Question: How do people with Alzheimer's suddenly remember a fact about their lives, but forget it a moment/day later?
Answer: Alzheimer's messes with the neural connections in the brain. Think of it like a shorting wire. Sometimes the signal will get through, sometimes it won't.

Question: Why when you get sunburnt is drinking a lot of water a huge importance?
Answer: Basically sunburn is inflamed skin and its going through the healing process. Our body uses water as a transport mechanism to provide nutrients and remove waste products. Sun burnt skin needs to be replenished with nutrients and have the injured skin bi products removed. More water means more transport and removal of this critical healing process.

Question: When big movie producers send out movies to be reviewed by critics, shouldn't it be easy to catch who uploaded the DVDScr?
Answer: It's a decent idea.

Amazon tried to do something simillar for their e-book sale, they thought of placing 1-2 random spelling mistakes in each one, to see who uploaded something at a torrent tracker. But eventually they abandoned the plan. 

I'm not answering your question though :(

Question: Why do you feel cold and nauseous after breaking a bone?
Answer: Shock. You both is redirecting your blood to your vital organs, which drops your blood pressure. Shutting down your digestive system and flooding your body with hormones such as adrenaline enables it to have the resources it needs to deal with the problem once it knows what it is.

Question: How does my charger know to stop charging my phone when it's at 100%?
Answer: The usual way the state of charge for any battery is measured is by voltage. It's most accurate when the battery is full or nearly full or empty.

My guess would be that there's a target voltage and when it's reached the cellphone disconnects the charger electronically.

Proper battery monitors actually use a more complicated algorithm to get the most accurate state of charge.

Question: How do TV companies record viewing figures?
Answer: TV Viewership is measured under the Nielson system, which returns "ratings" for specific demographics.  They gather the information by either having select households self-report their live viewing habits or by sending out "Nielson boxes" to certain homes to be connected to TVs to specifically send viewing reports to Nielson.  This system gives a general percentage of which households are watching what channels when.

The system has faced a ton of backlash from the public in recent years over the out dated aspects of the system and how they lack a proper way to account for DVR or streaming methods in the overall rating. It is also under criticism for how it selects it's "subjects." Plus people report having a bias of what they watch because they know they are being reported on to Nielson.  The company has recently been trying to find ways to redo the system to account for the problems.

Most networks are aware that while Nielsen ratings give a general idea of the audience, it is not exact.  That's often the point of the social network aspects of tv shows showing twitter hashtags for every episode and sites like GetGlue where anybody can "check in" to say what shows they are watching.  It gives a better idea of who is watching or plans to watch the series.  

TL;DR: TV views are measured by a outdated but somewhat-effective system of select people reporting on what they watch.

Question: What would if we dug a hole across the earth and threw and object in there?
Answer: Gravitational pull is basically zero at the center of the earth, so an object would fall and pass the center, but then be drawn back the opposite direction. Each pass through the center of the earth would slow the object down, eventually leaving it suspended right in the middle.

Question: Why is the filming and distribution of pornography legal, while prostitution is illegal?
Answer: I'm not the expert or anything but my guess is that porn actors and actresses go through severe and mandatory regulations, policies and laws in order to be hired. They need to do weekly tests as proof that they are healthy and have no diseases.

On the other hand, prostitutes don't have any regulations at all and they probably won't care if they give you a disease or not.

Question: how can some people have a fetish that they only fantasies about while finding it disgusting in real life. Incest is one example where many claim they would never do it in real life however it is still a turn on for them in form of a fantasy.
Answer: Specifically in your example of incest, there's a thing called [the Westermarck Effect] (_URL_0_) that is basically the effect that growing up around family members ruins any possibility of being sexually attracted to them. You don't want to bone your sister because you grew around her, watching her dirty her diapers and eat her boogers and whatever, long before she became a sexual being.

But, taboo is a strong aphrodisiac. People get aroused by doing things they're not allowed to do, or perceive themselves as not allowed to do. And one of the first sexual taboos you ever learned is, "Don't fuck your sister." 

So, while the idea of sister-fucking can be exciting because of the taboo, for most people, they look at their actual sister and the Westermarck effect kicks in and the idea of actually fucking your own sister feels gross. So, they like porno of other people boning their sisters, so they don't have to deal with the icky real-life feelings of their own sister situation.

This same concept pans out for some other fetishes which have real world consequences. The idea of losing control to an unknown assailant (rape fantasy) can be super hot, but being faced with the possibility of real rape, suddenly it's scary and not fun, because the real world has consequences. Or a poo fetish, because in real life poo can make you sick, and so on and so forth.

Question: When you eat healthy and then eat a cheat meal, why does the junk food taste so bad and make you feel sick?
Answer: A lot of Junk food is really high in sugar and salt, while a lot of home-cooked 'Health' food is much lower in those things. 

As far as taste: When you're eating junk food all the time, your senses get used to the ultra-high sugar and salt content. When you switch to eating 'health' food all the time, you get used to the lower sugar content, and you become more sensitive to the less-dramatic flavors that would have been overshadowed by excessive sweetness/saltiness. This also means if you go from healthy-to-junk, then you'll be suddenly bombarded with syrupy, excessively salty food. 

As far as feeling gross: Eating junk food (usually stuff that is super high in carbs and sugar, aka soon-to-be sugar and sugar) in excess can create a dramatic blood sugar spike, then blood sugar drop. The rapid swing of blood sugar and insulin response can create horrible headaches and general gross feelings. (Aching, fatigue, etc)

Those same things happen when you eat junk food normally, but if you're doing it all the time, your body kinda adjusts to feeling gross and sets that as the baseline 'normal' - Having excessive junk food as a 'cheat' day means it's 1 day of shit after a general baseline of 'pretty ok' so the feeling is more obvious.

Question: Can I fire a gun in space?
Answer: Yes, it will fire at normal bullet speeds. The bullet contains everything it needs to fire, so you don't need to worry about that. The only difference would be that the bullet would not lose speed to friction with an atmosphere and the trajectory wouldn't be curved (or as curved) due to gravity.

Question: The difference between Prussia and Germany
Answer: Prussia is a region of Europe roughly comprising what is now northern Poland, parts of Lithuania, and the Russian exclave of East Prussia.

This region was given to the Teutonic Knights during the Crusades to fight against the native Baltic pagans, which was the first German state in the region of Prussia.

Fast forward a few hundred years and Prussia is now the largest and most powerful of the many German states, comprising the aforementioned territory along the Baltic sea and roughly the northern half of modern-day Germany. In 1871 the German states unified into the German Empire (minus Austria, which already had an empire of its own) with the Prussians dominant; the Prussian king Wilhelm I became Kaiser and the Prussian prime minister Otto von Bismarck became Chancellor.

After Germany lost World War I the Treaty of Versaille forced them to give up most of the territory in Prussia proper, giving it to the restored states of Poland and Lithuania, as well as Russia. Much of the German-speaking population left or was expelled.

Question: Why are some countries' military independent from the government?
Answer: There is no single answer to this but in some countries the military have managed to own land which they can get income from instead of getting income through taxes. This makes it much harder for the government to control the army as they can not reduce their income. Of course there is a lot of politics and culture as well. If the leaders of Pentagon ordered an invasion of the White House and capitol hill they would have to be sure the men were willing to comply with the order. On 23 February 1981 the Spanish Congress were invaded by the Civil Guard and the rest of the army and police were unsure of what orders they should follow until the king made a televised speech condemning the coup.

Question: why do we treat/accept Monday as the first day of the week, but almost all calendars show Sunday as the first day of the week?
Answer: I don't know about Monday being the first day of the week. It's moreso the first day of the workweek, and why its treated like the first day of the week probably originates with that. In fact, in Vietnamese, Sunday is literally translated to "First day" and Monday is "Day two" and so on for the rest of the days.

Question: How did ships work?
Answer: A sailing ship cannot go *directly* into the wind, but it can engage in what's known as *tacking*.

Tacking is when a ship sails at a 45^o angle into the wind.  It can repeat that process at a 45^o angle in the other direction into the wind, and end up moving slowly, but ultimately directly into the wind, like this:

_URL_0_

As for the wheel, I imagine what you're seeing in the movies is the rudder coming to a straight (not turning left or right) position, which it'd be pulled to while the ship is moving forward.  It'd probably take a lot of force to turn the wheel left or right, but letting go of it would straighten the rudder back to it's straight position.

Question: Why do we have registries for sex offenders but not for murderers?
Answer: [Recidivism Rates](_URL_0_) -  the statistics and likelihood of a person repeating an undesirable behavior after they have either experienced negative consequences.  

Sex Offenders are statistically more likely to offend again than murders are.  Furthermore Sex Offenders are really easy targets for politicians to use to their advantage with their voting base.  (you'd never vote for someone that *doesn't want to track sex offenders*, right?)

Question: What happened to the new CEO's weekly AMAs?
Answer: They got tired of lying and having to backtrack on everything they bullshit about.  So it's best to avoid questions.

Question: How do natural wildfires start?
Answer: Lightning is natural, and starts a surprising number of fires. At our annual campout this year we watched smoke jumpers and helicopters spend the night putting out a lightning-spawned fire on a ridge only two or three miles away. AFAIK, everything else is man made.

Question: How are wooden barrels made to not leak?
Answer: It takes a long time to build a barrel, but the longest time is simply letting the wood air dry for a few years.  

The easiest simple explanation is that they use the two iron bands and a big old hammer to bang the wooden slats in so that they fit VERY tightly to each other.  Like we're talking massive pressure.  Water won't get through that (or wine or whiskey).  It's just super tight and they use a hammer, a winch and the iron bands to achieve that.

Question: Why do people assume that a guy driving a big truck is overcompensating?
Answer: Because very few people actually ***need*** a big truck, especially in cities. They don't typically tow large loads, or haul three refrigerators at the same time very often, so people assume it's a macho thing.

Question: Who owns the federal reserve?
Answer: This is a complicated question, so bear with me.

The first thing to keep in mind is that the idea of there being a singular Federal Reserve is an abstraction. The Federal Reserve system consists of a couple of committees and twelve regional Federal Reserve Banks. Private banks in each region hold stock in the regional Reserve Banks, but this stock is not freely transferable. The stock does pay dividends, as compensation for the reserves that member banks are required to deposited interest-free at a Federal Reserve Bank. After dividends and operating expenses, the remainder of the Reserves' profits go to the U.S. Treasury. Each regional Reserve Bank is audited annually by an internal team, by the Government Accountability Office, and by a private third-party accounting firm.

Federal Reserve policy  & mdash; interest rates, reserve requirements, and the like  & mdash; are set by the Board of Governors and Federal Open-Market Committee. Governors are appointed by the President of the United States for staggered, non-renewable 14-year terms. The FOMC consists of the seven governors and five of the twelve regional Federal Reserve presidents on a rotating basis. There are many laws that regulate how the Fed operates, but the U.S. Government has no direct power to set policy.

So, the Federal Reserve System is nominally owned by private banks, but in practice, it functions largely as an independent semi-governmental agency.

Question: Is the Human Brain faster than a computer?
Answer: It depends on what you mean by "faster". Can the human brain show a correct response to a simple external stimulus or output a simple computation more rapidly than a computer? No.   
  
Are there tasks that the human brain can do more rapidly than a computer? Yes. Mostly because there currently are tasks that cannot be done by computers *at all*.  If a computer is capable of doing a task, it is generally possible to speed it up by using more resources, so it is almost always possible for the computer to beat humans in terms of speed for those kinds of tasks.  I can't think of a task that a computer is capable of doing which it cannot do faster than humans.

Question: Why orange juice tastes so bad after I brush my teeth?
Answer: I read somewhere that one of the ingredients in toothpaste kind of deactivates the part of your tongue that tastes sweet things. So OJ minus the sweetness is that sour icky taste you're thinking of. 
Here it is: _URL_0_

Question: We do people featured in drug documentaries not get arrested?
Answer: and yes i know i wrote we in the title instead of why. you're so smart for spotting that.

Question: Europe and North American culture and civilization is refered to as "western". Why is that?
Answer: The term 'West' (as opposed to 'East' in the sense of China or the like) developed before the Americas were known. At the time, the known world was Eurasia, and Europe was on the western edge of that world. So the 'West' came to mean 'European-influenced'.

Question: How come I jump as high off 2 feet as I would off 1 foot? Shouldn't I jump higher off 2 feet? Which would let me jump higher?
Answer: Depends on whether you are moving or not. 

If you are getting a running start, jumping off one foot is much better. You can drive one if your knees upwards to change your forward momentum into vertical momentum.

If you are standing still, two feet is the way to go. If you can, pump your arms to get more power. 

That's about all I've got.

Question: When oligarchs like the Koch brothers die, where is all that power gonna go?
Answer: Both of them have children.  Whether the children can exercise the power is a thing yet to be seen.  Just like it was not known at the time when Fred Chase kicked it which of his four sons would do what.

Question: Why do we say 'the NSA' but rarely 'the NASA'?
Answer: "NSA" is an initialism, like FBI or most 3-letter agencies. "NASA" is an acronym and linguistically treated like a noun.

Question: How do they decaffeinate coffee and soda (pop)?
Answer: The [International Coffee Organization](_URL_0_) actually has a decently ELI5 worth explanation on how they do it.

Question: How do short films make a profit?
Answer: There are tons of "shorts", after a fashion. They're just on television -- most TV shows are basically in the tradition of the serial shorts (once a staple of movie theaters), adapted from cinema to the small screen.

Modern short *films* mostly don't make a profit. Many get made by student filmmakers and artists, either as exercises, vanity projects, or to make an artistic point. They often don't cost very much to make: maybe $25,000. More expensive Hollywood/studio shorts get made essentially as prestige projects, to draw attention and praise to the studio, director, actors, etc. 

Disney/Pixar and their peers still make animated shorts for a few reasons. The short acts as a "bonus" attached to a feature film, which audiences like. It's a side project the crew can work on while taking breaks from a main project (often there's no voice talent required, so it's just animators). The short also sets a mood, without being a part of the feature film itself, which is useful to the director's storytelling. And the short is a chance to experiment with technical and storytelling techniques, which are still emerging in animation.

Question: what makes "neon" colors so bright?
Answer: > Sometimes instead of being called neon colors they are called "fluorescent" colors. What makes them fluorescent is that they absorb light you normally can't see (UV light) and then release that energy as visible light. The result is that if you shine light that has UV in it (like sunlight or a blacklight) instead of just reflecting light like normal colors do, they actually glow as if they were a weak light bulb. The end result is that there is actually more light of those colors hitting your eyes so they seem brighter.

 > As for why you can't think of "dark" neon colors, it's because what makes them distinct is that they add more light, while darkness is actually the absence of light.

_URL_0_

Question: Why are chocolate stains so hard to get out while other stains aren't?
Answer: Part of it is that chocolate is super dark, of course. It's also ground very fine too make, so it gets everywhere.  And the bits that are not tiny teeny chocolate powder are brown cacao oil.  So you've got those three things (each of them a hard stain alone) to make the perfect storm of stains.

Question: how come we couldn't use built up pressure to launch objects into space?
Answer: It's actually an idea, called the Verne Gun after Jules Verne's classic book *From the Earth to the Moon* and like you said, the initial object would be fired into near earth before propulsion or other means are used.

The problem is pesky G forces. In a rocked it's a somewhat slow build up, but firing shit out of a massive cannon is going from 0 to hypersonic instantly. This would likely turn any astronaut into fine paste while the rest of the craft is torn apart by the atmosphere resistance.

Question: How does eardrops works in reducing pain or infections?
Answer: It depends on the medication contained within. Many contain antibiotics and many contain steroid anti-inflammatory agents which reducing swelling and pain associated with it.

Question: Why are fingerprints different person to person?
Answer: Actually, even identical twins have different fingerprints. Minor differences in fingerprints arise from random local events during fetal development. The genes determine the general characteristics of the patterns of fingerprints. However, inside the uterus, finger tissue comes in contact with the amniotic fluid, other parts of the fetus and the uterus. Some experts point out, for example, that touching amniotic fluid during weeks 6-13 of pregnancy significantly changes the patterns of fetus’s fingerprints.

Question: Why is the scandal with Chris Christie and the lane closures a big deal?
Answer: It isn't just that someone died in an ambulance. Granted, that is the worst possible outcome for the situation, but what makes those responsible for this situation reprehensible is the fact that the lane closure was designed to cripple the city of Fort Lee. People would not be able to get to work on time, stores are going to see decreased sales, a lot of traffic, if at all possible, was diverted. And this was done with the callousness of a 15YO playing Sim City and trying to punish the people of the town by creating a volcano on the only road out of town. 

Look, Christie is a bad ass. He presents himself that way and that is what the citizens of Jersey want to represent them. But you can be a bad ass and not be a bully and Christie crossed that line.

Question: how do scientists fire just a single elementary particle?
Answer: Usually they do not. For example the Large Hadron Collider emits protons in bunches of 100 billion. [source.](_URL_0_)

Question: Why do we "hallucinate" while reading?
Answer: Go to a doctor. There might be something wrong with you. Or perhaps stop chewing on the book. Thanks.

Question: How can enough oxygen remain in crowded cities where there are very few plants to photosynthesize the CO2?
Answer: there are no impregnable barriers separating urban air space and surrounding air space, so air can move freely back and forth. as such, not only can wind (credit to ernie) bring in oxygen, it can also remove CO2 and other components that make up "air".

Question: Can insects really make a home for themselves inside a human's ear canal?
Answer: Yes. Yes they can. There are also blowfish which can lay eggs in your eye and then grow maggots inside your eyesocket. There are also 3 foot long nematode worms which can get into your feet, grow into your leg, and then spend weeks crawling out when they die. Fortunately, we are pretty close to wiping out that particular one.

Question: How can someone sue over potential profits?
Answer: There is precedence in the concept of tortious interference. Let's say you arrange to sell some product to a potential buyer. But, before they actually buy the product, they bow out of the deal. You find out that some third party was spreading rumors or lies about you, and that directly led to the buyer not following through with the deal.

This is tortious interference. In this case, the sale that never happened would be the lost "potential profit" and the victim could stand to recover that in damages from a suit. It'd be upon the plaintiff to demonstrate and validate what those loses were (that is, what they would have earned if the sale had went through).

All that said, it is never a requirement in a court of law to prove things "unequivocally." Given that this is a civil matter, the bar would be the "preponderance of evidence." Basically you have to just show that it is more likely to be true than not true. That is, if you demonstrate that it is 51% likely to be true, you've met that burden.

Question: If hair is supposed to be "dead", how does shampoo+conditioner+hair creams work in order to make "dull, life-ess hair" into smooth, shiny and silky?
Answer: You know how shoe polish and leather conditioner will make old shoes look new again while exposing them to water, mud, and sun light will make them deteriotr faster? Even though hair is not living, they could still benefit from adding more moisture while exposing them to the elements could still destroy them.

Question: Why is "18 years old" most desirable in porn films? (NSFW)
Answer: They know their market. Who doesn't like the idea of watching some 18 year old girl get pounded? The funny thing is a lot of them probably aren't even 18. Who the hell cares? Who would be able to tell? Just give her some pigtails and a cheerleader outfit and you're good. They'd say 16 if it were legal.

Also, this is a very inappropriate question for a 5 year old.

Question: Why do we say our descriptive words in a particular order? For example: "Big red ball," not "Red big ball."
Answer: There actually is a "correct" order, although most people don't learn it. We often pick it up without realizing it, but that's why certain orders sound "weird"

_URL_1_

_URL_0_

Question: Why do emergency vehicles sirens in the US also have the strange sounding siren that almost sounds like a bubble or being underwater?
Answer: The thumper? 
It is a really low tone that deaf people can feel approaching.

Question: Why are dogs one of the few animals that form strong attachments to people and bond really well with humans?
Answer: Because dogs have been domesticated over time.

Originally dogs (or the precursor to what we call a dog now) wouldn't have been as friendly and attached to humans as the ones we have today. Over time, however, 'dogs' that were more friendly to humans would be more likely to get food from humans and survive (and pass on their genetics to offspring).

So basically the friendly dogs that attached to humans would get more human sympathy (i.e. be given food, water, shelter) and would be more likely to survive and reproduce than non-friendly dogs. Eventually you end-up with most dogs being very friendly and affectionate towards humans.

Additionally, humans have helped to selectively breed dogs which are friendlier and more attached to humans by encouraging the friendly dogs to mate and/or preventing violent/non-friendly dogs from mating. So, once again, over time you end-up with a much greater population of friendly dogs than non-friendly dogs.

In summary, a combination of natural selection processes and selective breeding have contributed to the evolution of the dog into a fully domesticated animal that is genetically predisposed to be friendly with and be socially attached to humans.

Question: If water boils at 212°, then why is there water in the air?
Answer: There is water in a gas form in the air due to a process called evaporation. Evaporation creates water vapour. Evaporation is different to boiling water. When water reaches 212F it turns into steam. 

There is only so much water that can stay suspended in the air as a gas (the water vapour) through evaporation. It will go higher than this level in the event of boiling. When you boil water, you get steam, which will increase the water in the air, to above this level. When this happens the water will start to condense back into liquid water, forming 'mist' which is visible to the eye.

Question: If Bitcoins are just computer generated, why hasn't some one found a way to just make them without mining?
Answer: Bitcoins aren't generated, they already exist. They are the answers to a set number of very hard and tedious math problems. You don't create new bitcoins. You get access to a bitcoin that already exists when you find the answer to the problem it is hidden behind. That is if no one else got there first and logged it into the network.

The only two ways of getting a bitcoin is by solving the problem (mining) or just guessing the answer.

Question: How do earphones know which sounds to play in the right ear and which to play in the left?
Answer: Take a look at this picture of earbuds: _URL_0_

Notice the jack is separated into 3 sections.  This is how the stereo sound gets split into right and left. 

One section carries the signal for the right ear; one section carries the signal for the left ear.  The third section is what is called a common wire. The common wire doesn't carry a signal to the earbuds, it's merely the path back to your phone/mp3 player/sound system to complete the electrical circuit. Both the left and right earbuds use this common wire.

Question: If we can control our breathing manually when we think about it, why can't we control other things manually like our heartbeat?
Answer: But you can control your heart rate. Just because you never learned dosen't mean you can't. There are many stage performers, yoga, martial arts enthusients who have demonstrated the ability to control their heart rate.

The quickest that comes to mind is people who train to hold their breath underwater ~ they slow their heart rate to achive the many minutes underwater without brain damage.

Question: Accumulation of wealth
Answer: The accumulation of wealth by one group is associated with the accumulation of things by others. Which results in the accumulation of obligations and debt. These obligations and debt become the generator of wealth for others. These obligations come in the form of labor to earn a living, providing for and raising a family, status, self worth, and empathizing with the needs of others. These obligations also form the basis of paying for labor, acquiring resources and financing needed to grow the economy, make a profit and create jobs in order to meet other obligations. 

Big numbers in the billions are the result of a business success, mergers, acquisitions, globalization, good products, good marketing, job offshoring for cheaper labor, and productivity increases due to personal drive, computerization and robotics.

Question: Defragmenting a hard drive, and what it means for the hard drive to be fragmented.
Answer: Let's say you have a lunch box. When you go to school, your mom has already (but hastily) packed it for you. Every item in your lunch box takes up some space (including some more than others). For example, your PB & J sandwich takes up 3 units of space, and your juice takes up 2 units of space, and your cookies take up 4 units of space. If we looked at a diagram, they might look like this:

     >  [..[sandwich][juice]..[cookies]..]
     >  where a . = unit of free space

Now, looking at this diagram, we can see that our total food/drinks takes up 3+2+4 = 9 units of space, and you have another 6 units of free space. Great!

Timmy Smith, who owns the biggest baseball card collection in the school, wants to give you his cards to hold for a couple days. Great! He tells you that his cards take up 6 units of space. Reviewing our lunch box, we have 6 units of free space! Therefore, we can take his cards and put them in our lunch box.

But there is a problem. While we know that we *can technically* put his cards in the lunchbox, we don't have the necessary room available due to the placement of other items in your lunchbox (see the above diagram, there's only 2 spaces of free space available individually, and we can't cut up his cards to fit in those spaces!).

So what is the solution to your mom's hasty packing job? We simply need to reorganize a bit! Let's take all your food/drink items and simply slide them all over to the left. Now our lunch box looks like this:

     >  [[sandwich][juice][cookies]......]
     >  where a . = unit of free space

Now we have *6 consecutive units of free space*, and we can take Timmy's cards and fit them snugly in:

     >  [[sandwich][juice][cookies][tim's cards]]
     >  there is now no free space

***

So, to elaborate upon the above analogy a bit, de-fragmenting your harddrive is meant to remove all those tiny little spaces in-between your files on your harddrive, and position them all together so you can fit larger files. Hope this helped.

Question: Why do we die instantly when our heart stops? Why don't we asphyxiate from lack of oxygen from blood no longer circulating?
Answer: You don't die instantly; people with a totally stopped heart often die, but it is possible if the heart resumes in a timely manner you'll survive.

There's a distinction between alive and conscious, though. A total stop in blood flow will make you pass out really quickly; in fact a sudden decrease in blood flow to the brain can easily cause one to faint even without the heart stopping.

Question: how Issac Newton came up with calculus and how others knew it valid and sound
Answer: It's all about recognizing a relationship between certain numbers. Let's talk gravity. Without air resistance, roughly 9.8m/s^2 on earth. We for sure know gravity works, we've proved it many times, objects fall down!

and if objects fall down...what the fuck is up with the moon! It's just up there, mocking gravity! And so are all the other planets!

The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy states: "There is an art to flying, or rather a knack. Its knack lies in learning to throw yourself at the ground and miss. ... Clearly, it is this second part, the missing, that presents the difficulties."

Newton knows they have to be following the law of gravity, because the law of gravity affects everything. So the paths these bodies are following, part of that equation is gravity. This presented Newton with the two body problem, the answer to why things *orbit.*

We look at center of mass, this is the part of the body that follows the orbit, since we work with only 2 points we can assume the relationship exists on one plane, and we look at the forces, how much gravity is affecting the body like a rope pulling on it directly and the other body's momentum. 

Knowing all of these things, Newton knows he can relate them! But "the how" hasn't been invented yet. He works out the math, and he's able to graph elipses, _URL_0_

And then what does Newton do? He looks at the sky to check his work. If he is correct about the orbits, the planets will all be in a very specific, measurable place in the sky. And he was right! Basically, Newton was the cool guy who could walk into the pub and bet on where the planets would be in a week, winning mad bets because that's what people did for fun in those days ^pretty ^^sure

This concludes an ELI5 leaving out most of the complicated math

Question: How bad is car exhaust for you?
Answer: Aside from the carbon monoxide, which just kills you, combustion byproducts are extremely toxic. There are gasses and particles that are inhaled and collect in the lungs and blood. Long term exposure is very bad, which is why cars have so many emissions controls to try to reduce the impact. The older the car, the more harmful stuff is coming out of the exhaust. 

It's nothing to freak out over, but it's never a good idea to run a car inside a garage.

Question: How are doctors able to so accurately estimate how much time terminal patients have left to live?
Answer: This isn't biology, it's math. To be specific, it's statistics. 

Doctors know the percentages, basically. They know that, out of 1,000 patients with a specific diagnosis, all were dead within a year, and the average life expectancy *was* 6 months. So when a *new* patient is diagnosed with the same condition, they'll say "This person has 4-8 months to live, a year at the outside."

Question: How did the diet commonly associated with breakfast remain so much less diverse than that associated with dinner?
Answer: Traditionally, breakfast foods are things that can be made quickly with little or no preparation time -- important because it's the first meal of the day. As a result, they are generally not very complicated dishes.

For example, I wouldn't want to prepare a lasagna for breakfast. Bacon, eggs and toast cook much much faster.

Question: Suffered with severe acne for 5 years trying everything. I gave up and stopped washing my face at all. 1 week later it stopped. I haven't washed my face in years and haven't seen any acne. Why has not washing my face worked better than any other product on the market?
Answer: Many things could be going on. You may have been allergic to an ingredient in common facial cleansers (like salicylic acid). More likely is that these products were drying out your face too much, so you skin responded by producing too much sebum (oil), which in turn clogged you pores.

I have battled terrible acne all my life. I have been on Accutane four times -- the drug worked wonders while I was taking it, but the acne returned when my course was complete. Now, I use a product line from La Roche Posay called "Effaclar." It's pretty much just benzoyl peroxide, and it's amazing.

Question: The questions raised by today's XKCD.
Answer: Basically things in a mirror aren't flipped horizontally. The left side is still on the left as the upper side is still on top.

If you now try to mention a book/piece of paper/word as an example, I have to disappoint you, because this depends totally on the axis you flip it.

Question: Why is it that when you drink water your pee become clear and thats a sign that you're hydrated, but when you drink beer you become dehydrated but your pee is still clear?
Answer: Clear urine simply means that you have a lot of water in your urine and the urine is dilute. When you're well hydrated, you pee out excess water and the urine is clear. When you drink alcohol, the alcohol inhibits a hormone that helps the kidneys reabsorb water. As a result, you pee out excess water making the urine clear...and you're peeing out more dilute urine than you should. This is what makes you dehydrated when you drink alcohol (and beer is mostly water, so now you're drinking water and stopping it from being reabsorbed so...even more water in the urine).

Question: How do services such as 'Bongo' in the UK know any details about a person, and are they even real?
Answer: From their FAQ:

 > HOW DOES BONGO WORK?

 > BONGO works thanks to a number of intelligent human researchers and a very sophisticated software application with a huge database.

So officially, they say it's a mixture of human researchers and a software application. Presumably they are collecting info from social media, publications, etc

You'd be shocked how much info the average person puts out there. I'm sure they're looking at who you have Liked on facebook and then tracking if that person has Liked your photos and that kind of stuff.

Question: Why is marriage "hard work"?
Answer: Life is hard work.  Marriage, or any situation where another person lives with you, complicates things because you can't just think about what is best for you in order to solve all the problems one encounters through life.  Someone with a family has many more considerations to take into account when making a decision, and are not the only decision maker.  There is much more compromise, and selfish actions usually cannot be taken.

Question: How do some business make profit out of a huge discount on products?
Answer: They're not losing $1440, they're getting $60 and claiming that you could find other classes that would charge $1500 for similar a similar class.  

Let's say the company offers a week of one on one training and gives the certification test, vs what's likely to be a set of videos posted online and a test.  While you get the certification both ways, the product (and price) are likely to be quite different.  If one-on-one training is $1,500, they're not wrong in that you can pay that much for a certification class.

Question: Why old videos always are messed up at the bottom
Answer: It's not the the original recording that's messed up, it's the result of the tracking not being correct when the VCR recording is being played back. Tracking is what syncs the speed of playback with the speed of the recording. When the tracking isn't correct, you get distortion in the image displayed on the screen.

Question: The new Snapchat privacy policy. How invasive is it really?
Answer: The problem is no one really knows what they plan on doing with this. It could be nothing, it could be horrible. Its the precedent of them saying "we are openly going to do whatever we want with all this" thats concerning

Question: Public Key Encryption
Answer: I actually just took a course on cryptography, so perhaps I can answer your question:

Public key cryptography is basically cryptography based on allowing people to send you messages by applying certain functions that use parameters you publish (the public key) on those messages (which are essentially big numbers). The resultant ciphertext is sent to you, where you'll be ready with a private key to decrypt it. The reason PKC works at all is because the private key is very difficult to get from the information you publish (the public key). Mathematically, it's uniquely determined, but very difficult to find given our computational resources, as far as we know it. All modern cryptography is based on certain computational problems being infeasible (also why quantum computers pose a threat to cryptography -- many of these "hard" problems are "easy" on quantum computers -- where "hard" and "easy" are defined in a precise mathematical sense).

ECC basically works by working over a different set of "numbers" and a new "operation". These new "numbers" are points on an elliptic curve (google for some pictures) and there is an operation called "addition" defined between two points on an elliptic curve that produces a third point, again on the curve. The reason using these "numbers" over regular numbers is better is because the new "addition" is much harder to calculate/reverse, meaning we can use shorter keys and still maintain the same level of security. The recent NSA scandal over ECC revolves around a method for generating random points on the elliptic curve that turned out to be not-so-random, letting the NSA predict the output of the "random" "number" generator after observing its behavior for a while (and random number generation is really important—oftentimes private keys are determined by random numbers, and sometimes they are the random numbers themselves!)

Question: Why is there a static sound when you unplug earphones from your device?
Answer: When the headphone connector is all the way in, there are three metal contacts that line up with three metal contacts inside the device. As you slide the plug in or pull it out, the contacts touch the wrongs places briefly and cause a momentary short circuit.  

The short circuit causes the voltage to spike very briefly. Audio signals are just voltages that go up and down in level. So when the voltage spikes, it's literally the same as a really loud part of the music.

Question: why are u supposed to not ration water but ration food when you are stranded in the desert?
Answer: Because you lose water through sweat, the minimum water intake is a hard minimum. You can go longer without eating because your body can turn to fat stores/muscle mass for energy.

Question: Why don't clubs have a 'house set' of high quality drums so bands don't need to carry their own space mongering set?
Answer: Some clubs do. The problem is that these sets get a lot of use and hardly any maintenance, and so sound crap.  It doesn't help that they're usually cheap to begin with.

Whenever I've used a house set it's always been rubbish. 

Oh, and some drummers like crazy set ups with 18 cymbals and 4,231 toms and 3 kick drums or something. Obviously they can't use the house set.

Also, drummers like differently set up drums, in terms of how they tighten the heads, and sizes of the drums (my old drummer had a habit of hitting his knee if the snare was too small), how the stick rebounds, the feel of the hi-hat, the feel of the kick... So many variables are in play that a house set - even a good quality one - is unlikely to work for most drummers.

Question: Why cant we order and buy new cars completely online, but are instead required to go to the dealership?
Answer: Tesla cars can be bought online! Otherwise due to state laws and stuff for regular cars you must go to a dealership.

Personally the best way that secured car purchases with me is go to Edmunds Tmv, get that price with the specs you priced and go to a dealership.'if they don't even match it or come close walk out and go to another one. Every time they say wait and i get the TMV price

Question: Cannabinoid receptors, CB1 and CB2, as novel targets for inhibition of non-small cell lung cancer growth and metastasis.
Answer: There are these receptors in lung cells called CB1 and CB2.  They are like Lego blocks, any block with the right shape will lock onto them.  It turns out than some non-small cell lung cancer cells have this same receptor.  We have plants, you know the one I suspect because you are asking, that happen to make compounds with the right shape to fit into these receptors.  This means we could make a drug that we could splice onto that molecule from the plant and put into the patient's lung. A drug that didn't harm the normal cells and damaged the NSCLC cells would have a therapeutic effect.  The compounds they experimented with "inhibited phosphorylation of AKT", which is a chemical process that needs to work for cells to stay alive, in the cancer cells.  It's an interesting approach, because usually there are two steps, find a cheap compound that will lock on + make a drug.  These receptors let scientists skip the first step using that plant you're thinking of.

Question: How did early explorers and cartographers accurately create their maps with the lack of tools we use today?
Answer: They had a very varied and effective arsenal of tools and mathematical knowledge to increase the accuracy of their depictions, however like you say, by todays standards they are somewhat poor. 

To work out lengths they would use ropes or wheels of predetermined lengths, and count how many ropes are needed or wheel revolutions, between two points. 

Further to this they used the mathematical truths of Euclidean geometry to work out long distances, and heights, between points. For example, you can work out the length of a long distance by using a telescope attached to a compass and trigonometry. By placing the telescope on one of the points, then facing it toward the other point, then measuring the angle between due north and the telescope direction. You can the repeat this for the other point, and calculate their distances using both angles. Heights between two points can also be obtained from this method, but instead of using a compass, using a protractor perpendicular to the telescope, as long as the distance is already know. This is essentially primitive triangulation, albeit fairly innacurate.


Geometry can also be used for scaling purposes, getting accurate proportions, and angles on your artistic representations of the landscape.

By utilising these methods, they were able to take down data for, and draw, maps of the places they had been to.

Essentially it all boiled down to mathematics. They know the maths, and their instruments are accurate enough for the job. Take a look at [this](_URL_0_) picture of a cartographers arsenal..

Question: With more People and less jobs, how will future generations all find employment?
Answer: More people means more demand means more production and civil service jobs. It's always been this way.

If one task is eventually automated, hopefully the excess workforce will be put to performing more complex tasks.

Question: Why are crooked teeth considered so unattractive in the US?
Answer: Attractiveness is generally determined by how symmetrical someone's features are. Crooked teeth destroy symmetry.

Question: what makes the light from stars lose intensity? Since they travel trough a vacuum and all that.
Answer: As light moves away from the star it has to occupy a larger area.

Imagine you took a picture of a star, and could see all of the photons currently emerging from the surface of that star. Like a photon balloon.

Then you wait one second and take a second picture. All of those photons are now one light-second away from the surface of the star. It's the same amount of photons (any newly emitted photons would be behind them) but they are covering a larger area (as if someone blew air into that "photon balloon").

When you have the same amount of light being spread over a larger and larger area, the light at any given area is going to appear dimmer and dimmer as the light is spread out more and more.

Question: Profile of the false accuser
Answer: Wait what? Why did I get downvoted? Did I put it in the wrong section?

Question: a DDoS attack?
Answer: flooding a network with a very large amount of requests for access or data.
Maybe this makes more sense,
If you had a 12 lane highway, put enough traffic in it and nobody can go anywhere.

Question: How does zipping a file make it smaller?
Answer: Zipping a file tries to reduce the amount of information needed to recreate the file.

Let's take the following 'file' : "aaabbbaaaccc"

This is a file of 12 letters. But we can easily see patterns, for example all different letters come in triplets.

So we can also say that the file is 3*a + 3*b + 3*a + 3*c.
You can see this as being 2+2+2+2 data units. 8 is smaller than 12, so the zipped file is smaller.

Most compression methods are a lot more complicated than this. They use complex mathematics and statistics to come up with smart methods to 'define' the file so that the zipped version might be smaller.


Note that zipping a file has to make sure the unzipped file is exactly the same as the original file. If not, a picture may not display correctly, or an application may not run. Imagine if you zipped your address and it would not be unzipped 100% accurately. Your guests may end up in another country.

This is different than say mp3, where the result of 'unzipping' is generally NOT the same as the original. But it's ok because our ears cannot hear the difference (most of the time).


Also note that it is not possible to infinitely keep zipping a zipfile, and get smaller files every time. Imagine if it were possible, you would end up with a file of 1 bit (bit being the most basic unit of information, 0 or 1). We cannot zip 10 different files and end up with all of them consisting of only a 0 or a 1. How would we recreate them? There are only 2 options! 

**So in short**: the zipping program tries to think of a clever way to *describe* the original file, such that the description is smaller than that file.

Question: How do we know that conservation of energy is a law? How have we proved that energy cannot be created or destroyed?
Answer: A scientific law is simply a statement that holds up under repeated experimentation.

The law of conservation of energy has held up with every experiment ever thrown at it across all parts of the universe we can observe. It is verifiable with math, measurements, and tests. Is it *possible* that it's wrong (or incomplete)? Sure, but just try to prove it.

Question: How does ISIS still exist and stay so strong although many nations have sent so much armed forces to hunt them down?
Answer: Much of the action against ISIS has taken the form of air strikes, special forces actions, and more conventional actions. To be effective against a guerrilla force, you need to have a large number of troops constantly occupying their power base areas to prevent them from moving and resupplying, while building good will with the local populace to prevent the guerrillas from recruiting.

Question: why has Africa fallen behind the rest of the world's exonomies?
Answer: Because it has always been behind (well, in the case of North Africa only since the late Middle Ages). 

It's mostly due to it's location and climate. Sub-Saharan Africa just was too far from from the trade routes of the world and didn't allow for large populations (until the Modern Era). When the Europeans started colonizing the Americas they decided that they didn't like the climate and the diseases in Africa and just decided to be satisfied with controlling the local populace (and enslaving it) as opposed to replacing it (like in the Americas).

The type of colonialism the Europeans practiced in many places didn't help and the randomly drawn borders that ignored historic ties/tribes/whatever did their share to causing decades of near constant warfare.

So basically Africa has always been in a tough spot, and hasn't really had much happen in its favour, ever.

And these days Western companies (and progressively Eastern ones as well) still try to use the weak political systems to extract most of the ressources from the continent instead of creating any kind of lasting economy. 

PS: Because the above text might sound somewhat biased: am European myself, no ties to Africa outside of history lessons ;)

Question: What is the point of having an interim position?
Answer: Some positions need to be filled immediately to continue operating the business  **but** they also want to have an in-depth search to find the absolute best person for the job.

The solution is to find somebody you know is good but doesn't really want to take the job for a long period of time to fill the vacancy.

Question: Why are Mosquitos attracted to colour and what purpose does it have?
Answer: Animals are more or less going to be a color with blue incorporated into it subtly even if we as humans can't see it they can. It simply acts to attract them to veins if visible or just a body in general.

Question: Why does love hurt ?
Answer: It's because you vest a degree of emotional trust and attachment to someone. Not only do you lose your love, but maybe your best friend too.

Question: Could I get a credit card and buy cheap items 1-3 times a month to build credit?
Answer: Yes, this is what you do when you have no credit. Don't buy things you can't pay off right now though.

Question: How does autofocus work in digital cameras? (particularly DSLRs)
Answer: When not in live view mode, DSLRs and film SLRs use phase detection autofocus, which uses optical triangulation to determine the distance between the camera focal plane and the focus target.  See [this page](_URL_0_) from Stanford for further details and a demonstration applet.

Most other types of cameras, including cell phones, P & S, mirrorless cameras, and DSLR cameras in live view mode, use [contrast detection autofocus](_URL_1_). CDAF works by measuring the level of contrast at the autofocus point and adjusting the lens position until the highest level of contrast is found.

PDAF is almost always faster than CDAF.

Question: Why is it that new GPU's have to increase in size to become more powerful while CPU's have always stayed the same size?
Answer: It is partly that GPUs create significantly more heat than CPUs. Most of the room a GPU takes up is fans or copper heat sinks.

Question: If I eat a lot of sugar In one sitting does my body store all of the sugar for later?
Answer: Are you the usual,  considered normal? Or are you a Type I or a type II diabetic? Or do you not know?

Normal response: Your GI tract starts absorbing the sugar. You blood glucose level starts rising. Actually this happens in all cases.

Further normal response. Your pancreatic cells concerned with this respond to the high levels of glucose in your blood. They start releasing insulin. Type I and Type II diabetics do not do this.

The insulin tells your body cells to take in the glucose. This lowers your blood glucose level. Diabetics can give themselves an injection, or be wearing a machine which increases a background level of insulin. Unknown diabetics get high blood glucose and thirsty.

Hypoglycemics may actually get a much lower glucose level due to increased insulin. They may feel light headed and almost faint.

How much sugar are you taking in? Spoonfuls? Cups? Everything is poisonous at some level. Do not challenge your body with the hidden question, will this kill me?

Question: Why do things that are powerwashed, say a wood house, not splinter and break?
Answer: Older wood will often splinter and break which is why I can't power wash my old deck but most wood you can buy is pressure treated and this allows it to withstand the ingres of water and it's pretty durable.

Question: Why is it that dreams are so weird?
Answer: We really don't know yet! There hasn't been all that much research into dreams, compared to a lot of other areas of science. Dreams seem to defy explanation and logic, and are very subjective, so it's tough to study them.

We do know that when you're asleep, certain parts of your brain turn on and off. Mostly, they turn off, and lots of different chemicals are released. For some reason that we don't completely understand (but we're getting there), your brain enters a state called REM, or Rapid Eye Movement sleep, where it's very active. In fact, your brain waves look almost the same as when you are awake! But, in this stage you're not taking in any information from your senses. All that activity is coming from your brain.

We know that REM is very important. It seems to be a time when your brain consolidates memories, making them stronger and easier to access, and connecting them with other memories. It might be that while it's consolidating memories, it's activating the different areas of your brain that you used during the day. But since a lot of your brain is turned off while you're sleeping, those memories might get interpreted in weird and jumbled-up ways, creating strange dreams.

There are also plenty of other possible explanations. It's an area that needs a lot more research!

Question: why the american corn taste different from middle eastern corn or Asian one?
Answer: They differ in species, soil composition, environment, exposure to the sun. These all could effect the taste.

Question: Why does urine feel hot after a workout?
Answer: Your body heats up while working out, and your pee is inside of you initially. Your skin cools down relatively quickly, but your internal organs stay warm for a while. On top of that, your heat-sensing nerves sense the change in heat, meaning if you stay in a warm environment for a while, you'll get used to it eventually and not notice it anymore. (this does have a limit, though, because your skin is also being warmed by your body, which tries to keep the temperature as stable as possible.)

So if you pee after you work out, it's about the same temperature of your internals, which are warmer than your skin.

Also, please don't tell me how you discovered this...

Question: Why are so many seedless fruits available such as watermelon, but not avocados?
Answer: *Most* fruits are not available seedless. 

In the example of watermelons, they have simply been bred to have very small, immature seeds. If you take an avocado and make its seed smaller, it'll still be a huge pit.

Question: When DJ's 'scratch', what exactly are they doing? How do they turn that into a song?
Answer: A vinyl record is one long groove etched into a disc. The different shapes of the groove vibrate the needle to make sounds as the record turns. You can stop the record at a specific point where there is a particular sound, such as a snare drum. Then if you move it back and forth while the needle is over that snare portion of the groove, it will create a cool scratching sound.  You are using a sound that's on the record to create a unique vibration with your  hand movements  that plays through the needle. For electronic devices like cd players and computers, they are imitating this process.

Question: Why are chiropractors so controversial?
Answer: There are two types of Chiropractor: "straight" and "mixers". The Straights believe that chiropractor can cure *anything* by spinal manipulation. This is the traditional  view. The "Mixers" restrict themselves to helping with back and spinal problems.

The results were analysed in the book "[Trick or Treatment](_URL_1_)". The two authors (both experts in alternative treatments) found that Chiropractic could help with back problems: but was more risky than Osteopathy (another alternative treatment, though getting more mainstream). And Osteopathy was more risky than the medical practice of physiotherapy.

"Straight" practitioners can and do attempt to cure the following with spinal manipulation:

* asthma

* colic in babies

* sleeping and feeding problems in babies

and many more.

Spinal manipulation does nothing to help in these areas, but is very much more dangerous for babies than for adults. It can result in severe damage to the child.

The British Chiropractic Association (BCA) [sued Dr Signh for libel](_URL_2_) when he wrote in a newspaper:

 >  You might think that modern chiropractors restrict themselves to treating back problems, but in fact they still possess some quite wacky ideas. The fundamentalists argue that they can cure anything. And even the more moderate chiropractors have ideas above their station. The British Chiropractic Association claims that their members can help treat children with colic, sleeping and feeding problems, frequent ear infections, asthma and prolonged crying, even though there is not a jot of evidence. This organisation is the respectable face of the chiropractic profession and yet it happily promotes bogus treatments

The English libel laws were somewhat draconian at the time. Singh fought the case on principle, even though he knew that the best-case scenario for him was to win the case and face at least £100,000 in legal costs just for having cleared his name.

The BCA case collapsed when a judge ruled that they could not sue *just* over the words "promote bogus treatments" but that they had to include the context (in which Singh made it clear that it was ignorance, not malice which made them promote the treatments).

However, the attention which the case got from science and skeptical bloggers, as well as in the mainstream media, did great damage to the BCA. 

This is known as "The Quacklash".

The claims of the BCA were publicly scrutinised by experts (including the [British Medical Journal](_URL_4_)) and found to be completely without substance. They had, precisely as Signh had claimed, *not a jot of evidence* to support their claims.

From a [newspaper article](_URL_3_) on the subject: 
 >  Further criticism has been focused on the BCA's presentation of supporting data, in particular its claim that a "plethora" of evidence backs the effectiveness of chiropractic in treating various childhood illnesses. Last year, facing demands that the BCA engage in scientific debate over its position, the association released its "plethora" to the public.

 >  The statement, supported by just 29 citations, was ripped apart by bloggers within 24 hours of publication, before being subjected to a further shredding in the British Medical Journal. It emerged that 10 of the papers cited had nothing to do with chiropractic treatment, and several weren't even studies. The remainder consisted of a small collection of poor-quality trials.

 >  More seriously, the BCA misled the public with a misrepresentation of one paper...



In addition to the analysis of the BCA's claims, skeptic activists started reporting Chiropractic websites to the Advertising Authority, who ensure that any claims are true. At its height, one in four members of the BCA was under investigation by the Advertising Authority or the BCA (they have to investigate any claims against any members) or both.

The collapse of the libel case, and the monetary loss suffered by Dr Singh in winning his case led directly to a campaign to reform libel law in England and Wales: and that campaign paid off when the next government did indeed tackle the worst of the problems. 

So to answer your question: the best Chiropractic is based on poor science. It sometimes works for back problems, but carries a greater risk than the appropriate medical treatments. The worst Chiropractic is as flawed as homeopathy, but carries the additional risk of physical harm to the patient.

People who have been treated by a Chiropractor and found it useful will generally approve of the treatment. Those who are aware of the science, and the risks, will disapprove.

And just to illustrate, I did a quick google for

    Los Angelese colic Chiropractic

and [here is the first result](_URL_0_).

 >  As the state of the spine affects the nervous system, gentle chiropractic adjustments are one suggested course of action, and babies with colic treated by chiropractic frequently show improvement as the spinal irritation eases. Given the traumatic experience of child birth, it is not surprising that babies may experience spinal subluxations that cause problems with their delicate nervous systems. 

The above is incorrect and, according to Dr Signh, potentially dangerous to babies.

For more on the Quacklash, [here is a good roundup article](_URL_3_)



**Edit TL;DR**
While Chiropractors can indeed help with back problems, there is no evidence to suggest that they can help with many things that many Chiropractors claim to be able to help with (eg colic and other baby problems). Indeed, the evidence suggests that Chiropractic is quite dangerous for babies and young children, and also can be damaging to adults. It is an alternative treatment which originating in the belief that spinal manipulation can cure *anything*. Some Chiropractors still believe this, while others take a more evidence-based approach.

The overly aggressive actions of the British Chiropractic Association towards a scientist who gave a genuine (but perhaps strongly worded) opinion based on fact, caused a great deal of ill-feeling in the skeptic community towards Chiropractic treatments, but many skeptics lump all Chiropractors together with the "traditional" ones, who are like homeopaths (but can cause real damage to people).

It is a less effective treatment than Oseopathy and physiotherapy, and not based in evidence. Hence you get the usual angry exchanges between believers and skeptics in the practice.

Question: Why do I get crappy gas millage in the winter when I drive slower but get better MPG when speeding in the summer?
Answer: The computer in your car adjusts the air fuel mixture based on air temperature among other things. The car has to run much longer to reach optimal operating temperature in winter so more fuel is used during this longer warm up (fast idle) period. If you are mostly making shorter trips (under 10 minutes) the car probably is running in a use more fuel mode for much of that time.


Here is a blurb I found on line:

The ideal operating outside air temperature for your best MPG’s will be from 75°-85°. Once you start dropping below say about 68° the mileage decreases pretty rapidly. The biggest impacts occur under 45°F . In fact depending on your make and model your mileage could drop by as much as 20-28% from summer warmth to winter cold. 

#3 Lower Engine Temperatures:

Your ideal engine temperature is around 150°-195° depending on your make and model. Most modern cars with computerized management systems for the engine will order up more gas in the combustion camber to compensate. More fuel is added to the air/fuel mixture when the engine is cold. Parking in a garage or combing trips when the engine is warm will help reduce this.
#4 Higher Oil  &  Lubricate Viscosity:

When your oil and oil pan are cold your oil becomes sticky and takes more energy to pump through the engine. Transmission and differential fluids do the same thing. Using synthetic fluids can help reduce this problem. Along with the garage or combining trips tip.

#6 Weaker Gasoline Blends:

Gas doesn’t like to vaporize at colder temperatures so oil companies change the gasoline blend  differently for cold weather markets. These changes make gas work better in the winter and at colder temperatures but it unfortunately also decrease MPG’s.
#7 More Aerodynamic Drag:

When it’s cold you have more drag on your car as the air passes over it. Cold air is just denser than warm air. A vehicle’s aerodynamic drag is proportional to air density, and the density increases as temperature drops. For every 10°  drop in temperature, aerodynamic drag increases by 2%. This is mostly at highway speeds and long trips on the freeways.
#8 Icy, Wet or Snowy Roads:

Cars that have slippage on their tires burn more gas. Now we don’t always have to worry about this but it is a small factor. If you have been driving in cold wet or snowy weather this adds up over time. Plus if you have automatic AWD or 4×4  and it kicks in while on slick roads you are using more gas.

Question: Why does water evaporate faster outdoors than indoors?
Answer: Yes, temperature. But also other factors, such as humidity and wind.

_URL_0_

There are definitely less wind indoor, so that's a big factor.

If you have a puddle in a small room, as the puddle evaporate, the room gets more humid, thus slowing slowing down the evaporation. In the outdoors, the humidity quickly disperses.

More importantly is surface area. A puddle and water in a glass, of the same volume, the puddle with evaporate faster, even when both are outdoors, or both are indoors.e

Question: Why does being paid for sex suddenly become acceptable when there is a camera involved?
Answer: Making porn films used to be illegal in most of the United States. Along came an over zealous sheriff in the late 70's who had the opposite approach of the OP. He felt that since people were being paid to participate in sex acts, it was prostitution and the actors could be arrested for that crime. 

The California Supreme Court ruled that prostitution involved having sex for the *sexual gratification of one or both of the participants.* Porn films are not made for that purpose. Porn films are made for the sexual gratification of the consumer. 

What this ruling did was put porn on a questionable, but legal footing since the actors are not being paid so the actors or even the director can get off, but so the viewer can shoot his load. 

So if you tape your sessions with a prostitute, and one of you enjoyed the sex act, you are going to pay a fine. Throw in a director, uncomfortable lighting, a camera jabbing you in the ass at every thrust, and a fluffer to help you maintain your erection, and you may get an acquittal.

Question: why do you have to "eject" USB drives before removing them from your computer?
Answer: I'm fairly sure this gets asked a lot, so I'm going with Short Answer: your operating system doesn't always write changes to files right away. This is intentional and for performance reasons. Telling the computer to eject a device forces any pending changes to be written right now. 

Basically, it's a precaution.

Question: How can someone incapable of speaking with a terrible stutter turn around and sing perfectly?
Answer: The parts of the brain that control speech are different than the ones that control singing.

Question: How the average net worth per person in America is more than $301,000, yet more than 80% of Americans are in debt?
Answer: There are some REALLY wealthy Americans who skew the numbers to a ludicrous degree. This is why average net worth isn't by itself a worthwhile statistic.

Question: Where does our head voice come from if it doesn't sound like our actual voice?
Answer: The psychological theory of [bicameralism](_URL_0_) is controversial, but interesting nonetheless.

It basically states that humans developed consciousness with an intermediary step -- bicameralism.  This involved two parts of the brain communicating, one is talking to the other and telling it what to do.  The author states that this is where the concept of "god" came from, as early humans were literally hearing another voice giving them commands.  Over time this evolved into true consciousness with an internal dialogue.

Some of these themes are being addressed (via artificially-intelligent androids) in HBO's new series Westworld.

Question: what happens if someone eats enough protein and some other nutrients but not enough calories?
Answer: His reserves will be used to make up the difference. 

Initially this will be bloodsugar, next any excess body fat, and then his muscles will be converted to energy.

Question: ELI: What determines which emergency vehicles arrive when a call comes in (traffic accident, medical incident, etc)?
Answer: A lot of times they just send all of them if an emergency call comes in.

Question: If I dug a hole from the north pole to the south pole, would I fall halfway and then fly upwards for the second half?
Answer: If you're digging the hole, there'd be no fall, since you'd already be down there... Just sayin. (Unless you climbed back out, only to jump into the hole)

Question: What is the difference between Apache Hadoop, Apache Spark, Apache HBase, and Apache Hive?
Answer: Forgive me if anything gets a little vague, I'm not an expert  &  have only looked at this stuff in passing.

Hadoop is the big dog core project.  It handles the low-level bits about distributed data storage (HDFS)  &  data processing (MapReduce).  On top of that base system, there's a *ton* of other tools that have been built.

Hive is one of those tools.  It basically gives you a database that's built on top of HDFS  &  MapReduce that you can query with SQL.  Since it's intended to be a data warehousing system, it's more for collecting  &  querying "dead" data than things that would change frequently.

HBase gives you a non-relational key-value system built on top of HDFS.  It's more for operating on huge data sets that you need to continually update.

Spark is a largely separate thing, while it works on large distributed data sets, it's based around a different model than MapReduce.  Apparently, it's faster on some types of data.    Using HDFS for the back-end is an option but not required.

Another tool I see mentioned a fair bit is Apache Pig.  It's some sort of super high level language for writing distributed computing jobs that can then then be run on a Hadoop or a 

Why so many different things?  A lot of people started developing shit for their own use  &  turned the projects over to the Apache Foundation.  As long as they have active users  &  developers, they can stay.

TL;DR - Hadoop  &  Spark are core frameworks.  HBase  &  Hive are higher level tools built on top of that.

Question: How do my electronics know what time it is, even after I turn them off for a few hours?
Answer: Think about a digital wrist watch. It can keep time with one little battery for years. All your electronics need is a quartz oscillator and a chip and a little electricity. That's why if you turn on a computer even years after it was plugged in, it still has pretty accurate time.

Question: Why are the American presidential primary elections not riddled with voters registering with the opposite party and voting against the candidate most likely to beat their favorite?
Answer: Nothing stops it, and registering for the opposing party in order to vote for the candidate that you think will win a nomination, but lose an election is not an unheard of thing.


The major downside is that you remove your ability to vote for the candidate that you think is best suited to lead your own party's bid for the presidency.

Question: The Menger Sponge
Answer: What do you want to know? It's an abstract object, not physically constructible. It is most often represented as an iterated process. The first few steps are easy to describe, and it can be seen as the result of this process taken to infinity. 

[This](_URL_0_) is a good illustration.

Question: Why did Sausage Party cost only $19 Million to make when movies like Finding Dory took $200 million?
Answer: The comments about poor animator pay are correct, but it can't account for the HUGE 10x difference. You have to keep in mind that the two movies have **different risk profiles.** 

**TL;DR: Disney knows they can make huge hits, so they can spend a lot. Sausage Party is much riskier, so they're more careful with spending.**

Disney goes all out, all the time. They have their formula down pat, and they make a shit ton of money every time. They can afford to spend $200m because they *know* that it'll earn more than that. And they *want* to spend top dollar to guarantee those super high critic scores and that $1b in ticket sales. So they fine tune every single detail, make sure every little pixel and every effect is gorgeous and perfectly rendered, and all the actors deliver top performances. How much money did Disney think this movie can earn - $400m? $800m? $1.5b? Those are all real possibilities, so dropping another $100m to ensure quality seems like a worthwhile investment! So far, Finding Dory has grossed over $900m, so they're on track.

Sausage Party, on the other hand, is much riskier. It's a new story concept (very adult-oriented), animation is new for Seth Rogen, and it's a new director. The adult content will definitely prevent a lot of people from seeing it. So the producers don't know how much money it'll earn. $10m? 40m? $400m? It's very hard to say. They're certainly not willing to invest $200m into it. So they work with a smaller budget and cut corners. Unfortunately, the cost cutting resulted in awful working conditions, but this risk analysis explains the producers'/financers' rationale. So far, Sausage Party has grossed $75m (but it's only been a week or two), so they're going to make a nice profit, but it's not going to be anywhere near Disney/Pixar scale.

**TL;DR: Disney knows they can make huge hits, so they can spend a lot. Sausage Party is much riskier, so they're more careful with spending.**

Question: The average bullet travels at 1700mph. So if you were to travel at 1700mph and simultaneously fire a bullet. What would happen?
Answer: If you were to fire it forward, from the point of view of someone stood on the ground, the bullet would be now be travelling at 3400MPH. 

If you were to fire it backwards, the speed would cancel out and to someone stationary the bullet would drop harmlessly to the ground like a stone. 

**EDIT** [Relevant Mythbusters experiment](_URL_0_)

Question: In popular TV Show Boston Legal, why do the lawyers from Crane,Pool and Schmidt always give their closing the last(2nd)?
Answer: Artistic license.  The same goes for some shows/movies when the lawyer in the middle of cross examination suddenly stops questioning and makes an argument to the jury.  As an attorney for 20+ years, I've learned to suspend disbelief and grant a certain amount of artistic license.

Question: How does devaluing a currency "stimulate exports" in any real sense of the term? Doesn't the stimulation only occure because the exporters DON'T change their prices to account for their now weakend currency?
Answer: Good question. I think you are just missing one point, the value on the Canadian side.

The assumption would be that if the price does not change on the US side (ie. still $100 USD) then their buying behaviour wouldn't change. They would still buy the same amount of product.

On the Canadian side of the transaction, the company is now receiving $120 CAD instead of the $100 CAD they received when the exchange rate was at parity. It boils down to the fact that the Canadian company is making more money for selling their product in the exact same way they did before.

EDIT: The other possiblity is that they can lower their selling price to out-compete a competitor with out losing profit. For example, a US company sells something for $100 USD, while a Canadian competitor can sell it for $85 USD and still make $100 CAD. Their profit is effectively the same as the US company but they are actually selling for a cheaper price in the US market.

Question: Why does McDonalds only charge $1 for a large coffee, but a medium costs $1.70
Answer: Because its dollar drink days all summer.  All drinks, all sizes: $1.

Question: Why are most electronic devices that require 2 batteries set up so that the batteries face in opposite directions?
Answer: depends on if the battery works in parallel or series.  

most electronics batteries work in series.  so you need the negative end of one to connect to the positive end of another.  so it's easier and requires less wiring to have them face in opposite directions.

Question: How does a credit/debit card work?
Answer: Credit cards use the RSA method to encrypt information. The method is based on the mathematical fact that if you take the product of two prime numbers, which we will call N, there is a formula that will tell you what power you can raise any number to whereby you will get that same number modulo N back. Modulo is just a fancy way of saying "the remainder." For example, 15 modulo 4 equals 3 (four goes into 15 three times with a remainder of 3).

So, for an example, you can take two prime numbers, let's say 3 and 11 and multiply them to get N, which is 33 in this case. You can then use the formula (p-1)(q-1)+1 to see what power you can raise a number to so that if you do modulo 33 you get the same number back. In this case it's (3-1)(11-1)+1 = 21. So raise any number to the 21st power and that number modulo 33 is the original number. Let's try it. 4^21= 67108864. And sure enough 67108864 modulo 21 is 4. In other words, x^21 modulo 33 = x.

The RSA method takes advantage of the fact that the number yielded by (p-1)(q-1)+1 is almost always not prime. Therefore, you can break it up into whole numbers. 21 will only break up into 3 and 7, but you generally have more choices generally with larger primes. We'll call the two whole numbers we chose r and s respectively. So far we have N = 33, p = 3, q = 11, r = 3, and s = 7. We don't need p and q any more after generating N, so you can ignore those from here on out. A merchant with the N, r, and s variables will make the N and either r or s public. When a computer encrypts your information, it takes the public r or s number, raises it to the r or s power modulo N, sends that as the encrypted number, and then decrypts it by raising the encrypted number to the other r or sth power modulo N to get the original credit card number. Since no one knows the secret r or s except  the merchant, only the merchant can decrypt it. Merchants typically use large primes so r and s are not easy to guess.

The reason this encryption can't be easily broken is that it's very hard to find the prime factorization of large numbers. However, you need the prime factors of N to figure out what r and s could possibly be. Thus, if you choose a sufficiently large N, r and s should be nearly impossible to guess. Why prime factorization of large numbers is incredibly difficult is for another ELI5.

tl;dr - Prime numbers work in such a way that you can generate a whole numbers from two of them that can be used as a public key for encryption that can only be decrypted by knowing the original prime numbers. The original prime numbers cannot be discovered if the whole number is sufficiently large because it is incredibly difficult to find the prime factorization of a large number. 

This [article](_URL_0_) explains it in more depth and contains links to proofs.

Question: What's the difference between grey and gray? When should I use which? I've wondered for years.
Answer: Usually, "grey" is the British/Commonwealth spelling (like adding the "u" in color/colour), while "gray" is the American spelling. I remember it by grey has an "e" for English and gray has an "a" for American.

Question: or just explain normally] What is the history of Anonymous, LulzSec, and AntiSec?
Answer: I can only talk about Anonymous because that's all I know.

Anonymous started back in 2008 when a video emerged of Tom Cruise talking about Scientology. 4chan (where Anonymous originated from) got angry about this, and saw this as proof Scientology was nothing but a bad thing for people. Anonymous said that the Church of Scientology (CoS) corrupted people, and was responsible for the murdering of ex-members.

So people started talking in IRCs and on threads on 4chan about what to do. And eventually everyone agreed that they had to "raid" the CoS by means of protest. It was spontaneous. It was well planned. It just happened. Within only a few days, over 10,000 Anons took the streets to protest the CoS. And that's the simple beginning.

Question: Why are numbers above a thousand uniquely named every 10^3 (e.g. thousand, million, billion, etc)?
Answer: [It's a tradition that dates back to the Fifteenth Century, and was first codified by a French mathematician named Jehan Adam.](_URL_0_)

Question: Exactly what training does a dog so in order to became a service dog? What sets them apart from other dogs?
Answer: Basically the desired traits of service dogs are good temperament, trainability, good health and physical structure. Hence why labs, golden retrievers and German Shepherds are the most common service dogs you will see. Any dog can be trained yes but not all breeds have all the desired traits. Imagine a chuiauia trying to alert your family member that you have had a seizure. 'Oh there goes that fucking yapping yap yap again'. As for your other questions, the training of the dogs all depends on exactly what they are being used for, whether it be a 'seeing' dog or one that can detect seizures. As for the typo, I really can't help you there sorry. You will have to live with that for the rest of your life :(

Question: How can there be negative decibels?
Answer: It's not that simple, but there's a part of it that's actually very very simple.

Sometimes we deal with extremely large numbers: millions, billions, trillions of billions. That gets tiresome, so a clever guy worked out how to make the numbers smaller, while still letting them be just as big.

He invented the logarithm.

Using the logarith, you just count how many zeroes are on a number, and then you use that, to say how large the number is.

10 has one zero, so log(10) = 1

100 has two zeroes, so log(100) = 2

10000000000000 has thirteen zeroes, so log(10000000000000) = 13.

Pretty simple, right?

But what about smaller numbers?

1 has no zeroes, so log(1) = 0

0,1 has zeroes, but they're on the wrong side, so we make them negative. log(0.1) = -1

log(0.00000001)=-7

So that's how you can have negative decibels - there's not negative sound, but there's just very little, and the logarithm makes it appear as a negative number, even though it's positive.

Question: behind the inside of a belly button?
Answer: The blood vessels and urachus (where urine the fetus produced leaves through umbilical cord) atrophy and become different rudimentary, ligament-like attachments. They don't serve any function in an adult. In the fetus, the urachus connected to the bladder, the two umbilical arteries connected to the aorta, and the umbilical vein connected to the liver. Fun fact: if the urachus fails to atrophy, a baby can leak urine out its bellybutton. 

These are the names of the three rudimentary structures in an adult human:
_URL_2_

_URL_1_

_URL_0_

Question: why are native american rights/issues not even factoring in this election (or in any popular discourse)? even when immigration is such a hot topic discussed by the descendants of immigrants?
Answer: /r/IndianCountry founder and mod reporting in.

Actually, **Bernie Sanders** now makes a point to regularly mention Native American issues in his stump speeches. He courts the Native Vote, which can influence outcomes in some regions.

Go ahead and search the Bernie subreddits for the words "Native American" and you'll see what I mean.

Otherwise, Native American issues are occasionally part of the news cycle, but not necessarily in balanced ways; you have to be *really* careful about factoring in marginalized voices and properly understanding law, history, and context. Otherwise, you won't see how much you're being shilled at and marketed to.

Question: Why do we (men) get morning wood?
Answer: Basically, unlike what you might think, it actually takes a muscle to contract to be flaccid. An erection is the relaxed state.

During sleep, the brain sends a certain hormone thing to your spinal cord to prevent you from moving things that aren't necessary (lack of this is what causes sleepwalking). This causes most muscles to react, including the little fella that controls if you get a hardon.

Question: what do insects do during the winter and how do they come back every spring and summer?
Answer: Some of them, having laid eggs that will not hatch/mature until spring, simply die.  
Others migrate. Butterflies are a common example.  
The rest hibernate.

Question: why was the spanish pavilion 1937 built
Answer: Spain was engulfed in a bitter civil war in 1937, and the Axis-backed nationalists were winning.

With WWII looming and a micro version already playing out in Spain, there was a lot of anti-war sentiment in the artistic community.

Question: Can someone explain to me the monty hall dilemma? Why does switching doors give you a higher probability of winning?
Answer: Imagine you have 100 doors, and there is a prize behind one.  You pick one door and then 98 others are opened.  The prize is either behind your door, or the other one that is unopened.  Should you switch?  

Absolutely, because you had a 1/100 shot of guessing right with your first pick, and a 99/100 chance if you switch.

Its the same idea with 3 doors.

Question: Why do antidepressants take several weeks to "kick in"?
Answer: After you take a drug, it starts getting eliminated from the body. When you take repeated doses before the drug is completely eliminated from your body, the concentration in your blood keeps increasing until you reach the desired "steady state", where there's a certain amount, and each time you take a dose, it replaces what had been lost between doses.

The amount of time each particular drug takes to reach that steady state varies and is relative to it's half-life in the body.

[There's a chart on this page that visualizes what's going on.](_URL_0_)

Question: What each computer part does and how it affects performance.
Answer: The hard drive is like a library.  It's huge and stores all the information you need, but it's slow to access stuff (imagine hunting through stacks of books looking for the one you want).  The hard drive really only matters as long as it's big enough to hold all your crap.  

RAM is like your desk.  It's great temporary storage, and it's fast to access.  But size is limited.  The more RAM you have, the more stuff you can store without going to the hard drive (which is slow).  RAM is needed to make programs run fast, and to run several programs at once.  You need enough RAM to run all the programs you want to run, but getting more RAM doesn't necessarily increase the quality of gaming.  (That is, if your games want 3 GB of RAM and you have 2, it will be super slow.  But it doesn't really matter if you have 4 or 8 or 16, as long as you have more than 3).  But plan ahead - games will only get more complex in the future.  

The speed war for CPUs ended a few years ago.  Remember when there were 3 GHz Pentium 4s?  Yeah, the 1.6 GHz i7 blows them out of the water.  Now it's not about clock speed (the GHz number) but other factors that go into the design.  They're magic as far as I'm concerned.  You can read about them [here](_URL_0_).  

The other thing you'll need for a good gaming machine is a good graphics card.  I don't know anything about them.  You should ask someone else.  They're generally multi-core (some are 48 or 96) and they're super amazing at chomping through all the math involved with 3D rendering, but they're very specialized and aren't as good at running programs.  

The motherboard is quite literally a circuit board that holds all the stuff together.  Make sure you get one that's compatible with all the components you're buying.  I don't know anything about this.

Question: How can we see the Milky Way if we are inside it?
Answer: We are on one of the spiral arms, about two-thirds of the way out. [This image](_URL_0_) should do a good job of giving you an idea of where we are. 

When we "see the Milky Way", we're actually seeing the rest of it from our position in the galaxy. That is, we're seeing the centre. In that image I linked, imagine that you were looking upwards. You can see other spiral arms from the galaxy, but most of it is the star cluster at the centre. 

Edit: [Here](_URL_1_) is a really great image of what the Milky Way "looks like" from Earth. You can see the very shape of the centre of the galaxy, as well as the edges stretching away either side. We are just part of its edge.

Question: What is the historical rate of return from the stock market
Answer: Which market?  I would suggest you google "index funds" to get a general idea.

Generally, you get 5%-12% per decade.

Question: if outerspace is a vacuum what stops it from sucking up our atmosphere?
Answer: The gravity of earth is stronger than the vacuum of space. One example of an element that is not, is helium. Its too light and after it has been released into the air, it rises and exits out atmosspere (which is why weather balloons use helium). The rest of the elements are too heavy ro escape without propulsion.

Question: Why must my college books cost so much? The entire system is corrupt. There is now way a hardcover book should cost $199.98, and I've even seen more expensive than that. There has got to be a way to stop this. I want to change this.. Can we find a way?
Answer: Do you have a question you want explained like you're 5?  Because all I see is a rant.

Question: Why does China defend North Korea so often at the international level?
Answer: 1. North Korea is already a huge humanitarian crisis, but collapse of the regime means that a huge portion of that becomes China's problem more or less immediately. Millions of North Koreans would flee into Northeastern China, which already has a large population of ethnically Korean citizens. Actually keeping these people alive after living their entire lives in the DPRK would be enormously expensive and a logistical nightmare.

2. China likes having North Korea as a buffer state. Regardless of who would take over the area that's currently North Korea in the event of a collapse, China likely winds up with a US-allied country on its border, if South Korea would reunited with the North (which would cost South Korea trillions and take a very, very long time; the Reunification of Germany was a cakewalk compared to the situation in the Korean Peninsula). It would rather that didn't happen. 

They know how bad things are in the DPRK, but by nominally supporting the Kim regime, everything is contained, from China's perspective. The status quo is the least bad option, in China's view.

Question: Why did the guitar become the go-to instrument for rock and the blues?
Answer: I think it's because the guitar, and it's variations, are one of the few instruments you can sing with while playing. Try doing that with a saxophone or violin. Adding on to that, it's a fairly easy instrument to learn and allows for easy of movement and performance, so its an easy fit.

Question: Gears in cars
Answer: Have you never ridden a bicycle with gears? It works the same. In a low gear you are very strong, you can go up a steep hill. But you don't get that far for ever turn of the pedals. And if you get up to speed you need to peddle like a mad man to keep up.

A higher gear however is great when you are moving fast, one turn of the pedals moves you a long distance. But you aren't very strong, so if you get to a hill you wont have the power to get up.

It works exactly the same for a car, you use a low gear when you need power, for example when you want to get the car moving from a stand still. But the engine can only spin so fast, so when the car is rolling you want to shift up to a higher gear, which makes the wheels turn further for ever turn of the engine.

So in short, if you try to start off in 5th gear you will stall your engine. And if you try to drive at high speed in first gear you will blow up your engine.

Question: Some ads say tooth enamel cannot be restored, but others claim their paste repairs it. Which is true?
Answer: Tooth enamel that's gone is gone forever. Softened tooth enamel however can be chemically hardened to prevent it from being eaten away by further acid erosion.

Question: Now that nano engineering of carbon is becoming a reality, are there any other materials which the properties can be nano engineered?
Answer: Realistically there are a lot of elements and molecules that can be produced on the nanoscale. The problem than comes from the property of the elements change drastically. One example being colloidal silver (nano particles of silver in solution) when silver is shrunk to the nano level it changes color to yellow and has properties that allow it to prevent the spread of bacteria for medical applications in the future. We already use layering of materials at the nano level with processes called CVD(chemical vapor deposition) and ALD(atomic layer deposition). The processes simply puts on a layer of some molecule onto some material, ALD produces a surface that is just one molecule thick which is so cool by the way. The problem is that there are so many applications of engineering at the nanoscale and we simply don't know enough yet, we are learning more every day but we need to understand it better.

Source: I'm a student studying at a college specializing in nanoscale engineering and science

Question: If energy can't be created or destroyed, what happens to the energy during radioactive decay?
Answer: The energy released comes from the nucleus undergoing a transition (decay) to a more energy efficient state. Since the new nucleus is more energy efficient, we'll end up with some spare energy. This is the energy that's released in form of radiation.

Question: Why isnt there any "getting used to a medication dosage pills"
Answer: Some prescribers will indeed start a patient on a sub-therapeutic dose to make sure the drug is well-tolerated, and tablets are often scored to be cut in half if needed. For a drug like venlafaxine, slow dose increases are standard, as higher doses are more effective but many patients would have unacceptable nausea if they started at 225 mg.

That said, first-line antidepressants are pretty well-tolerated at initial doses like 20 mg of citalopram or 150 of bupropion. Some side effects will lessen after days to weeks. When it's going to take several weeks already to assess the effect of the drug, and each office visit costs time and money, and more complex dosing instructions tend to cause errors, there's an argument for keeping directions simple and starting at the minimum effective dose.

On the other end, discontinuation symptoms are indeed often reported with common antidepressants, especially when a higher dose has been taken for a longer time, when stopping or tapering abruptly, and in drugs with a shorter half-life like paroxetine. Fluoxetine and citalopram are actually available in liquid form, potentially allowing patients to taper off very gradually.

Question: When is it safe to open the microwave door?
Answer: The moment you open a microwave door it shuts off automatically. So it is safe to open the door any time as opening the door causes the microwave to cease operation.

Question: Why are some letters basically the same capital and lowercase (O, W, P) and some vastly different (G, E, Q)?
Answer: Our alphabet is derived from the Latin alphabet.  The Upper case is essential the Latin.  The lower case alphabet is derived from the Latin through an intermediate font called Carolinian minuscule.  This is a smaller font derived from the Latin alphabet designed to be easy to read and quick to write.  Changes were made to some letters to make it easier to distinquish them.

Question: Tax brackets and how it affects tax returns
Answer: Your coworkers likely don't know how tax brackets work. That's unfortunately common. Here's a basic example of how they work and how your coworkers think they work. 

Let's say income between $0 and $50,000 is taxed at 20% and income over $50,000 is taxed at 30%  

- So if you earn $40,000 you will pay $8000 in income tax. 
- And if you earn $60,000 you will pay $13,000 in income tax. For the first $50,000 you'll pay $10,000 and for the next $10,000 you'll pay $3,000. 



However many people incorrectly believe they work like this:

- Say you earn $49,000. You pay 20% tax on your income. 
- But if you work overtime and your total income becomes more than $50,000 you'll pay 30% on **all** your income. 

This is incorrect. You'll only pay 30% on the amount over $50,000. However you'll be amazed by the amount of people who think you pay the higher tax rate on all of your income and avoid working overtime or try not to get a raise because of it.

Question: How does organic milk have a shelf life of 2+ months?
Answer: it's ultrapasteurized. pasteurization is basically where you heat some liquid up real hot to kill all the germs. the "ultra" is just a longer, hotter method of heating the liquid up to kill even more germs for even longer. 

if you're over 5, you can read the wikipedia article [here](_URL_0_)

Question: why does your body get really warm when you go indoors after being out in cold weather for some time
Answer: It has something to do with heat conduction. When you're in the cold, your body is literally losing heat to attempt to maintain your internal body temperature (this is why hypothermia is a thing). Your skin becomes cold and your muscles start shivering to generate heat.

Whwn a room is completely closed, heat starts building up slowly due to micro organisms and their anaerobic respiration, and if there are humans or other creatures in the enclosed space. Eventually, the room becomes warmer than the outdoors( this always happens regardless of outside temperature, it is based on air convection and the amount of people in relation to the space they occupy, I.e. a small minibus with little openings and few people will get warm as fast as a larger closed room with 100 people inside.)

When you are cold and you enter the room, your body rushes to replenish the expended heat and starts absorbing heat from the room. Even though the heat may not be relatively "warm", it is higher than your current skin temperature and therefore feels warm (try putting your hand in cold water then warm water, it will feel like hot water).

I hope my answer helped (and please, if any of my information is incorrect, don't hesitate to correct me)

Question: Why does breathing into a bag help when hyperventilating?
Answer: When you hyperventilate your breathing pattern causes you to breath out too much carbon dioxide. (Your body doesn't really use it like it does oxygen, but it's adapted to it being there and requires it to be there in a certain concentration)

If you breath in a closed environment the excess carbon dioxide you exhale will come right back into the lungs when you breath in the air again.

Question: Why do Dryer Sheets work so well at negating Static Cling?
Answer: The dryer sheet has chemicals which are attracted to the electrically charged fibers; once a particle of fabric "clings" to a particle of the chemical, the two together have a neutral charge, so they won't cling to other fabric particles.

Question: Why Steam games are so cheap compared to Xbox and PS?
Answer: Because of a wide distribution chain. You can set the monetary bar high on consoles because the people who buy then have no choice.

Question: How did people in the Stone Age deal with diseases (viruses, bacteria, parasites)?
Answer: >  How did people in the Stone Age deal with diseases and mental disorders?

They either got over it, lived with it, or died. People died a lot back then.

 >  Wouldn't they have died out at a certain time?

Individuals did but overall they reproduced more.

 >  Considering countries today are very developed and still thousands of people die out from a virus in developed countries how did people in the Stone Age cope? Wouldn't they all have died out?

They didn't live nearly as close together back then. Even if an isolated tribe or family group caught some terrible sickness they would just all die and maybe never be found by other humans. This tended to weed out illnesses that were incredibly fatal and left those which were highly contagious but didn't actually kill their victims. Being too deadly would limit the survival potential of the illness itself.

Question: If we don't know when Jesus was born how did Christmas become a celebration?
Answer: There are many December holidays that take place during this time, and December 25th was intentionally chosen to mimic them. Both to draw attention away from them, and make it easier for converts to switch over. 

Saturnalia, the Winter Solstice celebrations, and the birth day of Mithra, Mothers' Night, Yule, Yalda and Dies Natalis Solis Invicti are all in this same time frame ... and all pre-date Christianity.

Question: What is a half-life?
Answer: Imagine you have a million pennies.  Every hour, you flip them, and remove all the coins that come up tails.  So after an hour, about half of them are gone, after two hours, 3/4th, etc.  You don't know when any particular penny will come up tails, but with a little math, you make a pretty good guess at how many would be left after 12 hours.

Radioactive atoms work in much the same way.  After a certain amount of time, called a half life, 50% of the atoms will have decayed.  It is a completely random event, so you can say which ones will decay, but looking at them as a group, you can predict how many will be left.

So if an area was contaminated with, say, plutonium-242, it would take 270,000 years for half of that to decay, 540,000 for 3/4, etc.  This sounds bad...and it is...but the longer the half life, the more slowly the radiation is released.  Exposure to Pu-242 wouldn't be terribly dangerous, unless you accidently ingested it, in which case it would slowly deliver radiation to you as long as it was in your system.

Question: Waist size vs pants size vs belt size.
Answer: There is no standard for sizing. It only is *very roughly* related to your actual waist size.  For example, a Levis 501 in 34 waist will fit quite differently from a Levis 511.  Across different brands, it is much worse.  

I suggest you find a particular pair of pants that fit you nicely, and get others in the same style.  For example, Levis 511 comes in jeans and every imaginable color of chinos.  

With belts it's even worse since some brands measure it from tip to tip, some measure from Buckle to last hole, some brands measure it from buckle to middle hole, etc.   You have to just try it on or find where they actually say their measuring method.

Question: Why a post will jump from 12000 upvotes to 7000, but OP only has 4600 link karma
Answer: I believe this is due to reddit sort of smearing the votes to prevents bots from upvoting a certain post to the front page.

Question: Why can I control an erect penis with my muscles and not a flaccid one?
Answer: You're actually controlling muscles at the base. You can control it flaccid, it's just nit as noticeable because the lack of rigidity.

Question: What's the deal with hot-wiring cars and how has it changed over time with advances in technology?
Answer: Traditionally cars operated on a pretty simple start up mechanism wherein a circuit was completed and the engine. As long as the circuit could be maintained then so could the car. 

This is actually still the primary principle however the safeguards to prevent a false start up are increased such as protecting from opening the starting mechanism; a two-trigger device wherein a device is located inside the key which communicated to the car that 'I am the real deal' while starting the engine; a more secure key-lock mechanism to prevent someone from just rigging it to turn; and more automated systems which detect when the car may be operated on under a false start (such as the wrong alloy for the key).

Hot wiring isn't really a thing in new cars as they are either too secure or their alarm signals when this happens making it impossible for a covert escape. It can still happen but it takes more skill than ramming a screwdriver in and turning.

Question: what has happened to Cartoon Network?
Answer: That's a really good question. I feel like adult swim is the only thing keeping them around. Ive found myself watching Boomerang more and more lately because they have more variety like old cartoon network used to have.

Question: How come human infants are so helpless, compared to other mammal offsprings?
Answer: One of the current theories is that it was evolutionarily favorable for human offspring to be born earlier in their cognitive development compared with other mammals so that their head would be small enough for a natural birth.  Instead of the brain growing larger during pregnancy and the baby being born with more cognitive abilities, the smaller undeveloped head allowed the baby to be delivered, and then the rest of the development occurred outside the womb.

Another reason is that human's can be born helpless and still survive till maturity is that humans, for the most part, don't have to worry about predators or the elements.  If other mammals were born as dependent as humans are they would never survive.

Question: Explain how percentiles work?
Answer: "Per cent" means out of 100.

Suppose you have 100 apples, and you rank them from most fresh to most rotten. The freshest apples would be the top 10 percent (the top 10 out of 100), and the most rotten would be the bottom 10 percent (the bottom 10 out of 100).

Question: linear, quadratic and exponential time
Answer: Talking about something like big O notation?  

It sounds like you are describing time complexity - the amount of time needed to complete a task increasing as the size of the task increases.  Some tasks "scale" better than others.

Linear time: if the task becomes twice as big, it takes (about) twice as long to do.  Cleaning two rooms takes about twice as long as cleaning one room.  The time required for cleaning a room is linear.

Quadratic time: if the task becomes twice as big, it takes (about) four times (2 squared) as long to do.  Task becomes 3 times as large now requires 3^2 = 9 times as long to finish.  4 times as large now takes 4^2 = 16 times as long to finish.

Exponential time: Task is twice as large requires M^2 times as long.  Three times as large requires M^3, four times as large now takes M^4.  M is just some number - it is not important compared to the exponent.

_URL_0_

In this image you see the different amount of time increasing as the task increases.  Linear time is the n line.  Quadratic time is the n^2 line.  Exponential time is 2^n line.

Question: The process that got the number "65 million", when it comes to dinosaur extinction, and why the process can be trusted.
Answer: The underlying science is based on dating various layers of rock found around the earth. (see [this wiki](_URL_0_))

Basically, scientists uses various methods to determine ranges for layers of rock that they find around the earth.  These are then cross compared to come up with a basic timeline of large scale geographic events in earth's history. 

For the dinosaur extinction, basically the fossil record in layers older than 65 million years (but post emergence of the dinosaurs) shows dinosaurs.  Then there's a thin layer that has a lot of material that you'd expect to find in the event of a large meteor strike, and then there's no more dinosaurs above that layer (except for birds.)

Question: The Watergate scandal and why it brought down a president.
Answer: There were offices in the Watergate complex in Washington DC.  One of those offices was used by the Democratic party in the 1972 election.  People working for people who worked for Nixon's Committee to Re-Elect the President (CREEP) broke into that office but were caught.

Subsequently there was a coverup to attempt to hide the link.  That coverup included improper suggestions from the President that the CIA interfere with the FBI's investigation.

In the end the House of Representatives Judicial Committee voted to send Articles of Impeachment against President Nixon to the full House for consideration.  The articles were based on abuses of power and interference with the legal system. They were virtually guaranteed to pass in the full House, and Nixon was informed that he did not have enough allies in the Senate to win the trial that would follow the articles being voted out of the House.  Rather than fight the trial and lose, Nixon elected to resign.

Question: Historically, what happens to people of country X who live in country Y, when X and Y go to war?
Answer: Usually most civilians try to vacate. War is not always an overnight start, and people with a strong survival instinct try to book it. Otherwise they could have thier lives leveraged as a negotiation tactic, put in internment camps, or just plain be casualties of hate crimes. Thats just scratching the surface of what can go bad, without even looking into the regulr atrocities of war. The safest place to be of countries X and Y are at war is to find country Z to hang out in until its resolved. Going home to country X you could be treated as a spy, and you could get the same suspicion by staying in country Y. Being in an area about to erupt in a war when you are from the country about to attack is just dangerous.

Question: I'm 26 and I have my University's insurance plan. If I have a heart attack or a sudden emergency, do I just call 911? Where will I be taken and who will pay for it?
Answer: Because your post isn't asking a simplified conceptual explanation, but rather for an answer, its been removed.   

You should try /r/answers, /r/askreddit or even one of the more specialized answers subreddits like /r/askhistorians, /r/askscience or others too numerous and varied to mention. 

Rest assured this doesn't make your question *bad*, it just makes it more appropriate for another subreddit.  Good luck!

Question: Why do we want to survive?
Answer: This question is sort of breaking into the realm of philosophy, but from the standpoint of natural selection, organisms with a natural impetus to survive are more likely to survive, reproduce, and pass those traits onto their offspring.

It's just as true for humans as it is for any other living thing.

Question: How do coroners identify a body during an autopsy?
Answer: If police series are relatively accurate, there are a few ways this can happen.

1) The body has some sort of identification on them (drivers license, passport,...)
2) Using specific body traits, like dental records, fingerprints, DNA, traceable implants,... But these require them being in a database.
3) Someone recognised the victim (if I'm not mistaken a positive identification from a family member is often required)
4) Comparing a picture of the victims face with a database (missing persons, people with criminal records,...)

Question: Why are pushups so much harder than they seem?
Answer: I'm assuming it is because you are pushing most of your weight against gravity.

Question: In games like Fallout and Skyrim ; why does fast travel always work outside but not once I go inside a building?
Answer: To prevent you from going into a dungeon, completing the quest objective, and fast travelling out of there. It means you have to complete the dungeon before leaving. 

Add to that the fact that all the game checks for is a flag on the cell/module that says it's indoors, and you also can't travel from Breezehome to Dragonsreach without schlepping all the way up there on foot.

Question: Why is subtraction so much more difficult than addition?
Answer: **Psychologically, we are "programmed" to accumulate rather than divest. As such, we start with accumulating and then learn to take away. Algorithmically, i.e., arithmetically, there is no difference.**

Question: How does your tongue heal automatically after it gets burnt from hot food?
Answer: Heals automatically...it takes me 2-3 days for my tounge to stop hurting when it gets burned

Question: How comes games for consoles lack mod support that their pc versions have?
Answer: Modding a game generally goes against the policies that developers have to agree to to get their games on the console. Making a game moddable generally opens up possibilities for exploits that enable piracy and unwanted use of the system.

On top of that, games for consoles are very streamlined and made to be perfect on that system. They have to be like this since consoles lack the raw power of a PC. They need to cut corners, compress, optimize in order to run right. If you add in all of these mods that aren't made to run perfectly on one console, you're going to end up with a very sluggish and broken game very quickly.

Question: Why didn't coffee evolve the same way as tea, with everyone using little one-use bags of grinds just like tea?
Answer: Yes, it is a taste issue, but coffee bags do exist.  They're just not as good as other methods of coffee making, although they are better than instant.

Question: Can charge from lightning rods be converted to usable electricity, and if so why don't we do it (that I've heard of)?
Answer: The main problem with lightning is that it happens so quickly.  A bolt of lightning can strike and transfer all of its energy in mere fractions of a second... and then it's over.

We currently don't have any technology that can effectively capture that kind of power (without damage) in that short amount of time.  Each bolt carries with it enough energy to power a single 100-watt light bulb for about 6 hours.

Additionally, lightning is too sporadic and infrequent to provide a reliable source of power.

Question: Flossing
Answer: Teeth have bacteria on them. The bacteria produce a film on the teeth (sometimes called plaque). The film itself is acidic so can damage teeth. This is what brushing removes.

Over time this film becomes hard (sometimes called tartar) and it can't be removed by brushing. It take 24-72 hours for this hardening to happen, so it's a good idea to floss once a day. Once it has hardened, your dentist needs to use metal tools and a polisher to carefully remove it.

There are little (2-3mm) pockets at the gum line where your tooth enters the gum. The tartar can also develop along the base of the teeth, inside these pockets. As the tarter gets thicker it can irritate the gums and cause the gum to separate from the teeth. Initially this just makes the pockets a bit bigger (4-6mm), but this means the teeth are more difficult to clean, but also that parts of the tooth that aren't covered with enamel are exposed to the film.

What flossing does is remove the film from the pockets before it can harden into tartar. Brushing doesn't do this and it's important for the long-term health of your teeth.

Generally brushing is more important when you're young. Baby teeth have quite thin enamel, and we aren't really worried about the gum pockets. When you're older the enamel is generally thicker (this depends a bit on the person), but you need the gums to stay healthy if you want to keep your teeth for 70 years.

Damage to enamel isn't reversible, but this isn't the complete picture. There is another layer called dentin, which isn't as hard, but which [can regrow](_URL_1_).

The larger gum pockets can also heal. If the tartar is removed, and kept away by regular flossing, the gum can reattach and the pockets can shrink (going from 6mm to 3mm in 6 months is possible, but it depends on the person).

[Here's a video about how to floss](_URL_0_). If your dentist hasn't talked to you about this, ask. Some dentists forget who they've told and get tired of repeating themselves. (I'll assume that's what it is and not that your dentists seen poor flossing as a way to make more money in the future.)

Question: Why is it illegal to feed or provide necessities to the homeless in certain areas/states/cities?
Answer: It's not like it's against the law to give your leftovers to a beggar when you leave a restaurant.  What's illegal is setting up a large-scale food distribution scheme and going around feeding dozens/hundreds of people **without getting food service permits**.  Once you start feeding large numbers of people, you're expected to have the same licences and sanitation standards as a restaurant.

Question: Why do people learn differently, i.e, by hearing, by visual, and by touching?
Answer: They don't. It's just an old myth. 

 >  There have been systematic studies of the effectiveness of learning styles that have consistently found either no evidence or very weak evidence to support the hypothesis that matching or “meshing” material in the appropriate format to an individual’s learning style is selectively more effective for educational attainment. Students will improve if they think about how they learn but not because material is matched to their supposed learning style. 

_URL_0_

Question: When you get tan/sunburnt, why do you mainly peel on your shoulders and rarely your legs?
Answer: Because your shoulders are more aimed towards the sun than your legs, which are kind of at an angle, and soak up a greater proportion of UV rays.

If you laid on your back all day facing the sun, your legs and chest would then burn a lot more than your shoulders would.

Imagine pointing a torch straight down at the ground, and then pointing it in front of you. Right under you is your shoulders, your legs are off in front of you, and the torch is acting as the sun. It's a lot brighter when it's not spread out more.

Question: Christmas. How did it originate and how did it come to be what it is today?
Answer: Many cultures have 'winter solstice' festivals in and around the 25th of December. This was because days were short and dark, as little as 5 hours between sun rise and sun set in some northern Scandinavian capitals (Oslo etc)

So the cheer themselves up around the time of the shortest say they would get together, have a party, exchange gifts, etc.

Later Christianity became the dominant religion and pagan festivals could no longer be tolerated, so a story was created about the birth of Christ. (even though there is major dispute over this date)

However many of the trappings of the pagan festivals can still be seen. Evergreen tree to remember even in deep winter plants can survive. Mistletoe and holly to ward of spirits. And so on.

Each of the main countries that had these festivals (Gemany, Denmark, the UK, Norway, etc.) had a 'character' to go along with them, Saint Nicholas, sinterklaas, Father Christmas, and so on.

When immigrants went to the US there needed to be someway of amalgamating these disparate elements. So gradually over time, the elements of 'German Christmas' 'British Christmas' and so on all blended together into the modern day incarnation, and Santa Claus was born to play the character in this new version. Shoes filled with candy were replaced with stockings over the fire place, candles mounted on ever green trees were replaced with the far more sensible electric lights.

You can actually still see elements of the old characters in Santa Claus, both because of the name (Santa Claus is very close to Sinterklauss) and also because if you call him 'St. Nick' or 'Father Christmas' people know who you are talking about despite these figures being different and pre-dating him.

Eventually the US became the dominant cultural force and exported its version of Christmas back to Europe.

Question: How does the processor know what to do with input and code?
Answer: >  How does the machine even know what to do with programming code?

Inside the Central Processing Unit are millions of transistors.

These transistors are grouped together to build logic gates - simple electric circuits that can do things with binary 1s and 0s, like determine if Bit 1 AND Bit 2 are both set to 1, for example.

These logic gates are grouped together to do useful things. For example, with a couple of dozen of these, you can add two binary numbers together.

Further logic gates are set to look for specific binary codes that represent specific instructions. Then, if they see the code which represents "add", for example, they trigger the circuit that adds numbers into action.

All of these sections are tied together by a clock that makes sure one action happens, then the next, then the next.

Question: Why does my car have a spare tire, but not a spare battery?
Answer: Your spare battery would go dead as well. You can't have a spare car battery sitting in a car for years without it dying while a spare tire will last a long time without compromise

Question: ;Why is it so easy to doze off during the day after(or at) work or class,but downright impossible at night?
Answer: Probably because you have the variation your PER1 gene expression (part of the gene group that controls circadian rhythm) that makes you a night owl rather than early bird / day lark.

In prehistoric times, you would have been the one of the people watching over the village at night, keeping your family safe from predators.

Unfortunately modern society was set up by a bunch of prudes that thought nocturnal activity was inherently wrong, and so the 9-5 working day became enshrined as the normal/healthy time to be awake and alert.

Question: How does first past the post voting work, and what other voting methods are there?
Answer: The basic idea of FPTP voting is that each person gets to cast a single vote and whomever gets the most votes wins.  This is often referred to as the _plurality_ of votes, as the candidate does not have to get the _majority_ of votes cast, just the most.

The flaw in this system is that, if you support a less popular candidate, your vote can often lead to your _least_ preferred option winning.  Lets say we have three parties - Yellow, Purple and Orange.  You are an Orange supporter, which is a more extreme version of the Yellow party; you like the Yellow guy, but you don't think he goes far enough.  You flat out hate the Purple guy.

Election day comes and you cast your Orange party vote.  The votes are tallied and Orange got 20% of the vote, Yellow got 35% and Purple got 45% - Purple wins.  But wait - you say - that isn't fair!  All of the Orange party people would prefer Yellow, so Yellow should have won 55% to 45%.  Sadly, FPTP voting says that isn't the way it works.  This is often called the spoiler effect - we have seen it happen many times in US voting (Bush/Clinton, Bush/Gore).

Now, next election, you vote strategically and vote Yellow.  You don't like him as much as Orange, but he's better than Purple.  This is what happens in FPTP voting - you often end up with just two parties due to strategic voting which makes it very hard for 3rd parties to gain traction.

Now, there are other systems that help to combat this.  Things like single transferable vote or instant run off voting allow you to rank candidates and, if your 1st choice doesn't win your vote is transferred to your second choice (and so on).  This lets you actually vote for your first choice with the knowledge that even if they don't win, you'll still get your prefered candidate from whomever is left.

Question: Reddit, where do streams and torrents come from?
Answer: Streams come from a respective central source like youtube or the website involved in the streaming, IE there is a central source hosting the material 

Torrents are a different story. Torrents are decentralized controlled by the peers who are sharing them. Websites like the pirate bay are middle men who give you access to the links that give you the correct "address" to download on the peer network for the file you want. As the torrent is initially downloaded in pieces the people downloading it make those pieces available to the rest of the network and then the original centralized download from an initial source slowly becomes decentralized over the network to the point where multiple people have copies that they are sharing to other users. It requires an initial person to make the torrent file and make it available on the network, but after a few hours of availability other people download it and make it available under the same file handle which decentralizes where the file is actually coming from. 


Why is because people like getting stuff.

Question: How does it work when someone wins a new home from a television show?
Answer: They will probably end up having to sell the home. Since they didn't pay for the home, and instead received it as a gift, the home is considered income. If the home is worth 250k dollars(average price of a home in the US), then they owe taxes on all of that which is about 57k dollars for a married couple, before deductions and other income is taken into account. If they pay the taxes, they will be on the hook for all bills associated with home going forward(property tax, insurance, maintenance, utilities etc)

Question: Why aren't half dollar and dollar coins in greater circulation in the US, and why don't we have larger coin denominations in general (i.e. a $2 coin)?
Answer: No one I know likes to carry around coins, especially 20 dollars worth of larger dollar-sized coins.  Bills are lighter and take up less space.

Question: Why do prisms split apart the different colors of light, but lenses don't?
Answer: Lenses do too.

The phenomenon is called chromatic aberration.  Good lenses, like camera lenses, have corrective doublet elements glued to them to compensate for the effect.  If you have high index eyeglasses, you can see the effect by looking at a thick black line on white paper.  It will be blue on one side and red on the other.

Question: Why Should I Inhale and Exhale at Certain Points While Doing Abdominal Exercises?
Answer: Some ab exercises tend to force are in or out of your lungs, so it is important to find the right point in the exercise to breath, so your diaphragm and your other muscles aren't fighting each other.  Also, breathing at the same point in the exercise make it easier to maintain proper form...this is true for all exercise, but especially true for ab work.

Question: Why is charging foreign customers up to twice as much for a product, like apple an wacom do, legal and not discrimination?
Answer: In the case of market segmentation, which is what you are actually asking about, a company has chosen to charge more to foreign markets. They likely did this based on projected or actual import and shipping costs, local laws, taxes, tariffs, currency values, or simply that they felt like it. 

It is not "discrimination" as you put it, because this type of discrimination is not unlawful. They are simply choosing to charge a different amount to everyone within your market. 

Discrimination is the act of choosing one over another. Despite the word being thrown around as though it's a "bad" thing, it has a simple and logical meaning.

Unless you could make a case that this company is charging you more for a product simply because of your race or color or religious affiliation or sexual preferences, then they are doing nothing illegal at least in the USA. 

If you happen to live in a nation where these things are not subject anti-discrimination laws, then it's possible they may even decide to charge you more because you're a minority or because you are gay. 
Though I suspect doing this would not make this company many friends.

Question: How does my car radio can display the song that it's currently being broadcasting.
Answer: It uses the [Radio Data System (RDS)](_URL_0_). Basically the data is intermixed with the other data on the signal, but the radio knows how to read it and display it to you.

Question: What does defragging your hard drive actually do?
Answer: So when you delete something from your hard drive, really all you've done is removed a pointer in the computer that tells it "hey there is something here."

Subsequently, when new files are added, it sees that space as available, and writes into it.

Sometimes, the space being written into does not match the space of what is being written. For instance, you delete a 1kb file, and are creating a 2 mb file. So the system writes 1kb to that spot. Then it writes the remaining in other spots. 

This slows the read time down as now the computer has to look in several different places to put together this one file. 

Defragging says "ok, look at the files I have, and arrange them so they're all together in one piece as much as possible"

Question: Why would a drug dealer mix a powerful opioid and deadly drug (fentanyl) with heroin, rather than a weaker substance, knowing that it could negatively impact future business?
Answer: Because it's extremely addictive and powerful so will give the impression that their product is much better value.

If you find a heroin dealer selling the same amount at about the same price, and it seems much stronger, of course that's what people will keep going back to.

As if heroin wasn't already strong and addictive enough as it is.

Question: Why does the word 'unisex' mean both sexes?
Answer: From what I read from Oxford, it's not "uni" meaning "one," it's uni as short for universal (or united).

Question: How does a car engine (or any engine) works, and what is the difference between a turbo charger and a super charger?
Answer: Turbochargers and superchargers are basically the same thing: air compressors. In a turbocharger, the compressor impeller is spun using exhaust gasses that are being pushed out of the engine. In a supercharger, the compressor is spun using a belt and pulley mounted on the front of the engine. 

The idea behind these two is that to work correctly, an engine needs to maintain a ratio of air to fuel (gasoline, diesel, etc). It's easy to put more fuel in an engine cylinder, but not nearly as easy to put air in there unless it's compressed. The more air that an engine can put in the cylinder, the more fuel you can add (while maintaining your air/fuel ratio), and the bigger your explosion resulting in more power the engine can make. A wise man once told me, "There is no replacement for displacement [meaning larger engine cylinders] except manifold pressure [meaning compressed intake air from a turbocharger or supercharger]."

Question: How exactly does patient zero for the flu contract the disease? Is it an outside source or a mutation?
Answer: I think what you are asking is how flues and other contagious diseases originate? Well, the origin of illnesses can be divided into two major categories: heirloom and zoonotic. The former are diseases "handed down" by our primate ancestors which we inherited as we evolved. The latter are diseases that we "caught" from our close proximity to other animals, accounting for aproximately 70% of all human disease. The common flu for example, is zoonotic, we did not initially have this disease as a species, but rather we contracted it from close contact with bird species over time. The cause of the common flu, influenza, was a bird disease, and highly mutative - it changes characteristics often. Here's how it likely first transmitted to humans: 

Humans started agricultural society and began having close contact with each other, and the attraction of peridomestic animals like birds and rats occurred due to high density of food. Humans have greater contact with birds all of sudden, as well as influenza - a bird disease. During all this time of contact, the disease is mutating into many different varieties, eventually one is able to be transmitted to a human as well as cause him illness. It has reached the animal-to-human transmission level. However, it is not yet human-to-human transmissible, so a epidemic does not occur. Over time, many of these animal-to-human jumps are made, until eventually a mutant variant emerges with characteristics that allow it to be human-human transmissible! Given a high enough population density, an epidemic emerges. 

In conclusion, there were probably many "patient zeros" who had animal-human transmissible varieties of the disease, and maybe a few with human-human. But at some point, there was one who was able to spread the disease to a high population density, say a person who is sick and sneezes all over food in a market vs. someone who gets sick and dies alone in the forest. The former can be considered "patient zero" - where the epidemic started. In answer to your question, it is both from an outside source and a mutation.

Question: Why didn't our taste buds evolve to make healthy foods taste good?
Answer: fatty foods are high in calories.   you need ALOT of calories to survive.  you need relatively few vitamins to survive.

Question: Why is the shower curtain rod in hotels bowed out?
Answer: Because shower curtains tend to get pulled inward when you're taking a shower thanks to the hot air inside the shower rising and creating a zone of reduced pressure.  To keep the curtain from getting annoyingly close, the rod is bowed outward.

Question: Why does citrus taste so bad after brushing my teeth?
Answer: You tongue can detect different tastes. It detects salty, sweet, sour, bitter and umami.

When you brush your teeth, the toothpaste becomes foamy. The foam is made by a chemical called sodium lauryl sulphate (SLS). SLS makes lots of foam and bubbles that make your teeth feel clean.

SLS makes your sweet taste buds stop working so well. SLS also destroys fats that block your bitter taste buds. SLS hides the sweetness of orange juice and makes it taste bitterer. That's why it tastes horrible after brushing your teeth.

SLS is in most toothpastes.

Question: why is a guitar never in tune?
Answer: Different strings sound different even if they're perfectly in tune, which may be contributing to the "out of tune-ness." The timbre (way it sounds) doesn't match between strings even if the pitch is the exact same.

Other complications can arise when you're fretting, because even if the strings are set to the correct tuning when open, they can be off when you actually fret the notes. If you're curious, get an electric tuner, tune an open string, and then check how in-tune each fret is; in most cases, they'll be slightly off. This happens because the neck isn't perfectly aligned. If it's really bad, a luthier can fix this for you.

You can also get things slightly out of tune by fretting too hard or too soft. You can get a wider range of pitch than you'd expect simply by pressing down harder on the fret, which lots of guitarists use as a vibrato technique.

A well-made and well-maintained guitar in the hands of a competent player should be "perfectly" in tune, or at least tuned well enough that anyone with normal ears can't pick up on it.

Question: With a nuke, how is it possible that so much energy can come out of something that small?
Answer: Nuclear weapons mostly work on the principle of fission. A heavy element (like Uranium 235, which contains 143 neutrons and 29 protons, and is unstable) is forced to lose some of it's subatomic particles and become different types of atoms.

Atoms are made up of three types of subatomic particles, protons (positive charge), neutrons (no charge/negligable) and electrons (negative charge but generally minescule and general have to equal protons in number). These three types of atoms are held together by one of the four Fundimental Forces of the universe: the Strong Atomic force. Because fission is ripping apart atoms, the energy of the Strong force is partially where the energy from nuclear fission comes from. As well as other forms of matter, such as gamma waves, which are deadly to humans.

In a simplistic way: Imagine you've got a big bag of potato chips (or crisps if you're UK/irish). That is a whole atom. You tear the bag open, and potato chips fly across the room, some shattering into smaller chips. The energy is the force required to split open the bag and results in the movement of the atoms, or chips, across a space with a lot of momentum (which translates to heat, light, and radiation in nuclear weapons).

This may help: _URL_0_ 

Note that Nuclear Fusion (creating new elements by forcing light elements together) is also used for nuclear weapons (hydrogen bomb) but they were not the nukes dropped in the only combat Nuclear Bombing (Hiroshima and Nagasaki).

Question: Why does a beer explode when I slam a glass bottle on top of another bottle?
Answer: Well, all the air inside forms bubbles, which move to the edge of the bottle then float upwards. When you hit the bottle with a another, it vibrates the glass, and the pressure pushes all the bubbles towards the middle. Because so many are pushed together they are forced both up and down, but obviously there's glass at the bottom, so the only way is up.

Question: How come dogs shiver even though when you cuddle with them, they're super warm?
Answer: My parents' poodle has had the shakes before -- the vet said it was because he was really anxious and stressed out. This happened while my parents were on vacation and I was dog-sitting.

My friend had a dog - I think a terrier - and when he got older, he started to shake/tremble whenever he was sitting (hind legs down, front legs propping him up). The vet told the family it was just old age (maybe because of his breed?)  &  nothing to worry about.

Question: The difference between Rap and Hip-Hop
Answer: Hip-hop is a culture that encompasses a lot more things than just music. Break-dancers, graffiti artists, beat-boxers, and DJs are all a part of hip-hop culture. So are rappers.

In recent times, however, people have started to distinguish hip-hop music by saying that some of it is rap, and some of it is hip-hop. This can be confusing since people still rap in what is called hip-hop, and all rap is a small part of a wider hip-hop culture!

It's hard to put an exact rule on how people differentiate between rap and hip-hop music, but, rap is typically all about attitude, whereas hip-hop is about "flow". For example, Gucci Mane raps in "Icy":

*I'm icy, I'm icy, I'm icy, I'm icy, I'm icy, I'm icy, I'm icy, I'm icy*

*All these girls excited*

*Oo ya know they like it*

*I'm so icy, so icy*

*Girl don't try to fight it*

*All yo friends invited*

*I'm so icy, so icy*

*I got so many rocks, on my chain and watch*

*I know I'm da shit, my chain hang down to my dick*

*I know I'm da bomb, just look at my charms*

See how Gucci Mane goes for very simple rhymes and structure? That's because what he's *really* concerned with is **attitude**; specifically, the attitude that he is "da shit" and "da bomb". Most artists that make rap music are just trying to outdo one another's attitudes.

Now, take a look at Danger Doom's "ATHF (Aqua Teen Hunger Force)":

*It stank like a septic tank full of big poo*

*He mostly only turned into a frank or an igloo*

*Switch your view to the brother with the fried dreads*

*Not to be confused with the incense selling thai heads*

*His name rhymes with Mike Hock*

*You could call him livewire eyesockets, Frylock*

*Able to shoot electricity through his eyeballs*

*And blast all through your single-sided brick and drywall*

See how DOOM comes up with fun rhymes like "Big poo/igloo", "eyeballs/drywall", yet, at the same time, never mentions his personal accomplishments? That's because all he's concerned about is **flow**.

Question: Why don't we have cones at high concentrations throughout our whole retina, not just the fovea?
Answer: Because evolution isn't out to make a perfect biological machine. Only make a biological machine that works for the pressures put against it right now.

It it figuratively the kid who doesn't want to be in school doing just barely enough work to get that D and pass the class.

Question: Why doesn't the FBI (or any criminal investigative service) immediately shut down any illegal streaming service (or pirating) upon finding it?
Answer: Most of the time these sites originate outside of the US, therefore outside their jurisdictional area.

Question: Why do zits seemingly only appear on your face or upper torso?
Answer: Acne more often affects skin with a greater number of oil glands (also known as sebaceous glands); these areas include the face, the upper part of the chest, and the back. You have much more sebaceous glands on your face than on the rest of your body. Hope that helps!

Question: Why does the US have a rule that no President can do more than two terms?
Answer: In most parts of the world, when there is a power transfer from one leader to another (or from one party to another), it's a risky time. There are often coups or power-grabs or even civil wars. In the U.S., the transition of power has always been peaceful (with the partial exception of Lincoln), and we really would like to keep it that way.

People in positions of power often find ways to hold onto that power (like forging relationships, crafting laws that favor them in subtle ways, or even just relying on the inertia of voters). This is why senators are and governors frequently keep their jobs until they retire or seek an even higher office. But as the public face of the country, the president's role is unique. Without a tradition or rule that limits presidents, it would probably be normal for presidents to remain in power for decades, often ending mid-term with the president's death or incapacity. This would make power transfers less common, more jarring, and more risky. By having a specific law (and before that, an honored tradition) of a 2-term limitation, everyone knows that a president can only do good or harm for eight years. It lowers the stakes, and lowers the turmoil, which is good for the stability of a democracy.

Question: How did we figure out what each of our organs do?
Answer: Medic/med student here. For a long time, we used autopsies. But those can only do so much when the subject is dead. We also used animals. By removing an organ or part of one and observing the changes, we could deduce its probable function. One such experiment was performed by removing the pancreas of a dog. The researchers noted that his urine now attracted flies because of the high sugar content. Thus, the pancreas were inferred to have something to do with sugar. It's now known they actually produce insulin. Another way is by studying disease courses. When a person has a diseased organ, they can look at the changes compared to a healthy person. 

There are also more ...unsavory ways. For example, in WWII, there was a place called unit 731 outside of pingfang, China. It did vivisections (a live autopsy, so to speak) conducted temperature studies, infected people with diseases, and tried experimental cures. After the war, the man who ran it, lt. General shiro ishii was pardoned by the allies in exchange for all of his research.  This is a quick recollection of a very long and at times sordid history but let me know if I can answer more.

Question: Why do things physically hurt more when we are cold?
Answer: Your body is filed with thermoreceptors to detect the temperature. You have 2 main thermoreceptors for cold: regular cold thermoreceptors and extreme cold thermoreceptors. The second one, extreme cold, sends pain signals to your brain. So when it's cold and something hurts you, your brain is getting 2 different pain signals that compound with each other

Question: How does this phone holder for your car not break your phone?
Answer: There are two electronics components that are sensitive to magnets: cathode ray tube (CRT) screens and hard drives. Your phone does not have either of those- it has an LED or LCD screen instead of a CRT and uses flash memory instead of a hard drive. 

With credit cards, the magnetic strip will get messed up with a strong magnet, but the chip that more places are switching to using (and pretty much everyone outside the US has fully switched to) will not be impacted by a magnet. The magnet on the case probably isn't strong enough to mess up the credit cards, especially with the metal plate between the cards and the magnet, but I'd probably avoid it just to be safe.

Question: How do computers convert binary into instructions?
Answer: This is the task of the CPUs control logic. All these transistors that make registers, busses, adders and the other fuctions of the CPU is controlled by single bit control signals. So you may have hundreds of these signals in a core. The control logic is a block that converts the instructions you feed the processor into these control signals. There is also a counter per instruction so that one instruction can take multiple cycles. The control logic can be made in different ways. The simplest way to think of it is as a read only memory which takes the instruction in as address input and outputs the data at that memory location as the control signals. However this is inefficient so they usually have ways to reduce the space requirements of this logic and end up with an FPGA or something similar. If you want to know more I recommend a youtube series by Ben Eater where he builds a very simple CPU using simple logic components.

Question: Why is it racist to make decisions based on race when it can be a good predictor of outcome/behavior?
Answer: I knew some white people who had foster kids and their son got taken away for child molestation.  So maybe you shouldn't go with the white babysitter guy.

Question: What's the deal with "laces in"?
Answer: It's from the movie 'Ace Ventura: Pet Detective' where a shamed former kicker who missed a game-winning field goal placed the blame on the star-QB/kick-holder because he didn't rotate the ball to be 'laces out' (facing away from the kicker).

The idea is that kicking the laced area may affect the trajectory/path/rotation/distance of a kick because it isn't as smooth as the rest of the ball.  The preferred area for a place kicker to kick the ball is on the smooth portion of the football.

Question: Why does our atmosphere appear blue from earth in sunlight, but when earth is viewed from space also in sunlight, it's clear/invisible?
Answer: The sky appears blue from inside our atmosphere because the light refracts (bounces around). The blue part of the light bounces around more, so that's what we see.
From the outside however, we're seeing the light that is reflected, not refracted. It is a subtle difference, but basically it doesn't bounce around and therefore we see clearly.

Question: What is integral spin/half-integral spin and what's the difference
Answer: Integer, not integral. 

You've probably heard of angular momentum; it's the rotational version of the momentum you encounter I'm everyday life. In classical physics, this is based on the fact that different parts of an object are moving in different ways. Imagine a carousel. At any time, two points on opposite sides are moving in opposite directions.

This doesn't work for fundamental particles, because they are essentially points -- they don't have different parts in different places. Instead, their angular momentum is defined differently, and for most particles, has a part that's a fundamental part of it, just like electric charge.

This fundamental part of angular momentum is called spin, and it can be one of two things: an integer (a positive, negative, or zero whole number), or a half integer (something-point-five). 

This defines the difference between bosons and fermions. Fermions, with half-integer spin, are subject to the exclusion principle. No two of them can be in the same state, in the same system. This is why atoms have a limited number of electrons in one shell: there are only a few distinct states an electron can occupy.

Bosons with integer spin, on the other hand, can share states. You can totally have a soup of photons, gluons, etc. that all occupy the same state in the same system.

Hope this helps. You might get a better explanation in /r/AskPhysics

Question: Why do women moan/scream during sex?
Answer: It’s a release. A letting go. Just like crying or laughing or any other release of an emotion.  It’s possible but not usual to silently laugh or cry, just like it’s possible but not usual to be silent during orgasm.

Question: Why didn't the U.S. include the release of prisoners in the new nuclear deal with Iran
Answer: Because that would have given leverage to Iran. By taking more prisoners and negotiating for their release too, they could have tried to extract more favorable terms in other parts of the agreement.

By not including prisoner release as part of the negotiations, the U.S. removed that potential negotiating card for them to play, forcing them to negotiate only on nuclear research and sanctions and nothing else.

Question: Why does cold water feel way more FREEZING than it actually is when I'm chewing minty gum?
Answer: The receptors that sense cold are partially activated by chemicals in the mint, and respond as though they're feeling a chill... when you hit them with something cold as well - they get a double whammy and it feels absolutely freezing.

Question: The downsides of working out while drunk
Answer: - If we count the "hold-my-beer idiot risks" as bad decisions leading to injury, being drunk also affects your muscle coordination which may result in injuring yourself even when you're doing your normal exercise routine.

- Alcohol is a diuretic which means it makes you pee out more water and electrolytes, causing dehydration (leading to hangovers). Exercise also causes dehydration. Combined, it means you will wear out much faster since your muscles won't have enough water or electrolytes. Sure you can hydrate yourself but you will have to hydrate even more than you usually do.

- If alcohol didn't have it's nasty side effects, it would be a very effective painkiller. This means that when you're exercising, you could be overexerting yourself because you don't feel the normal pain response. This could offset how much you actually gain from your workout or lead to injury.

Question: Who do most of our "traditional" Christmas songs, images and TV/movies come from the 1940s to the 1960s?
Answer: Here's my opinion on this, I have no expertise in it though.  By the way, this idea is directly plagiarized from [xkcd](_URL_1_).

[Baby Boomers](_URL_0_) grew up with those things and there are currently a lot of Baby Boomers.   Also , if you look at the current age and buying power of Baby Boomer's, they are really the perfect target demographic if you're trying to decide what music to play during Christmas shopping time at Macy's to get people in a nostalgic, warm-and-fuzzy, Christmas shopping mood.

Question: Ethanol in Fuel - What is it? Why is it added? Is it good/bad and why so?
Answer: E10 is a blend of gas/alcohol made from biomass (corn, usually).   Most modern cars are just fine running it.  E85 is a different beast, however - the concentration of ethanol is much higher (as is the octane rating), making engine management / fuel system changes necessary (usually engines require higher flow injectors/pump to run E85).  The higher the concentration of alcohol, the worse mileage you'll get, but it's usually offset by being lower price per gallon.

If you have a turbocharged car, an E85 tune can really be a godsend since its high octane rating means it will be less likely to pre detonate under higher compression.

Question: How does Humble Bundle make money when they have discounts that cost them hundreds of dollars each sale, and only make a percentage of the discounted sale?
Answer: It helps a lot that they aren't selling a physical product. Really cuts down on the cost per unit.  No materials, no production cost. Just licensing and server costs (bandwidth). 

So to say that it's 'costing hundreds' isn't accurate, they're almost certainly not dropping the price below cost, even though to us consumers, it seems like a crazy discount.

Question: Why do the hurricanes "curve" when they get close to Florida instead of just continuing straight?
Answer: Air currents 'push' the hurricane one way or another, in my comment below you will see a pretty interesting site.

Question: What is the difference between top 1% owning 1% of the nation's income vs bottom 1% owning 1% of nation's income
Answer: The reality is that the top 1% owns far more than 1% of the nation's wealth, hence what makes them the top 1%. If they owned the same as the bottom 1% then they would be in the same class as the bottom 1%. There would be no differentiating between the groups. How would you know anyone is relegated to whatever group/ class in which they are classified? Ergo, they wouldn't be the top 1%. No one would, nor would anyone be the bottom 1%. You are using terms used to describe population groups in a capitalist society in a hypothetical socialist situation.

Question: The origin  &  evolution of Black, Asian  &  European "races"
Answer: That is a loaded question with a multitude of heavy answers, but I will just give you a small brief to tide you over. The common consensuses in the study of human origins is that the modern human came from Africa. The reason for the varied skin tones, bone structure, and genetic dispositions is due to adapting to new environments when modern humans started to explore and settle in new lands. For example: The "European (White?) race" typically depicted as fair skinned, long noses, and light hair; adapted this way to accommodate the cold weather, high elevations, and general northern hemispheric conditions. Over thousands of years in northern lands with significantly less sun, melanin (the things that gives pigment to our skin) production started to decrease to allow the suns rays to penetrate the skin and stimulate the production of vitamin D. Where as in Africa, exposure to the sun is extreme and the large amounts of melanin in the skin provides a natural sunscreen to overexposure to Ultra Violet radiation. It is adaptive mutations like these that changed the relative appearance and genetic differences in pockets of human settlements. Now as for the term race...This is a combination of so many things, far too many to get into...Like you said, it's more of a social construct rather than one from a scientific standpoint. Long story short, the dominance of a particular region of humans allows that group to assert their views more aggressively. The deliberate categorization and segregation of humanity by dominate groups creates an environment in favor of said groups. As history and the human need for attention have shown us, we will act out against each other just to be kings of the playground. 

I wish we could all just sit nicely and drink our juice boxes together!

Question: What the hell are flies so attracted to?
Answer: Typically honey, but I've heard of a few people getting a few with vinegar.

Question: "66% of black people are on welfare and are the majority of the welfare receivers"
Answer: I don't know where the quote is from.  Its source may provide some insights on whether you should trust whoever said it.

According to the link you provided, assuming it's accurate, nearly 40% of welfare recipients are black.  This is less than half, so it does not match up with the quote's assertion that they are the majority of welfare recipients.  Perhaps it could mean the amount of dollars received through welfare, but the stats you provided don't provide that information.

As for the 66% statistic, that also doesn't match up with the data you provided.  The numbers you provided suggest that 39.8% of 11.4 million recipients are black.  Multiply those together and you get 4.5 million people.  I looked up the total population of black Americans and it seems to be around 40 million.  Multiply that by 66% and that comes out to about 26 million.  26 million is a lot larger than 4.5 million.  Therefore, based on the statistics you provided, along with a figure I found on America's black population, the percentage of black people on welfare is nowhere near 66%.

Question: How do cancerous cells affect and make the surrounding cells cancerous as well?
Answer: A cancerous cell can produce exosomes, little packages of cancer proteins, DNA and RNA, these exosomes float around the body through lymph and blood vessels and they are be accidentally swallowed by healthy cells elsewhere in the body. And these cancerous proteins/functional RNA can possibly shut down the tumour inhibiting proteins in the healthy cell, making them more likely to turn malignant.

Another way for cancer to propagate is by having cancer cells from the original tumour can break off, they float into the lymph vessels, travel to another part of the body and establish a satellite cancer tumour elsewhere. That's how cancer metastasize.

ED to incorporate current science.

Question: How do medications know to target specific parts of the body?
Answer: It doesn't know at all. Medicines are designed to bind to specific cells. They are distributed throughout the body in the bloodstream but only affect the areas they are designed to.

Question: why do camera lenses need so many elements? Why can't they just bend the light with one piece of glass?
Answer: All the lenses allow it to be adjusted to zoom in and out, as well as focus at a specific distance

Question: Why isn't there significant talk about forming a third party in the US during this current political climate?
Answer: One of the most robust conclusions of the literature on political science is that a winner take all voting system (like the US') will lead to the consolidation of political parties into two.

Pretend there are two parties, L and R which are left and right wing respectively. I then start a new party named LoC (which is left of center).

A left of center voter who finds me the most agreeable of the three parties will likely not vote for me if they think things out, though. If he and other people like him vote for my party, it would mean that left wing support has been split between my party and L, leaving R with a majority share of the vote.

Him voting for the party that he most agreed with led to the party he disagrees with the most winning.

TL,DR: The US' election system makes it virtually impossible for a third party to emerge and certain that in the long run there will only be two parties.

Question: Why doesn't the U.S. get rid of the penny?
Answer: People are very reluctant to accept and generally dislike change.

Question: What causes a drop of water on a phone screen to magnify the text underneath?
Answer: Light is refracted when it travels from one medium to another. The light from the screen is refracted (spread out) by the water droplet  and therefore appears bigger to your eyes.  
More information on how light acts here: _URL_0_

Question: How do neurons "know" things? As in, "this memory is stored in this neuron."
Answer: This is something that we don't know. We know that each memory has a particular network of neurons that is used when you remember it, but we aren't sure how that network stores things exactly. The brain recognizes the pattern of the network and you remember whatever is stored by it (or the other way around, you remember and then the brain recognizes the pattern). We can image this with fMRI and such but that doesn't tell us how. There was even an experiment where the researchers found a single neuron that fired in response to a picture of a celebrity (Jennifer Aniston, I think). The how boils down to neurotransmitters being released but, yet again, we're not sure how that results in a something like a memory. There is also the Orch OR theory that says that consciousness and the like results from quantum interactions within the microtubules of individual neurons, but I don't really understand it past that basic explanation.

Question: If sand is eroded rock, why does melting rock give you lava, but melting sand give you glass.
Answer: Geologist here!  Let me see if I can help:  Rock is made of of many different minerals like quartz, calcium carbonate, mica, biotite, feldspar, and many many others.  Glass and sand are both composed of the same mineral - quartz (SiO2 or silica dioxide), though commercial glass has additives to color it or help make it stronger.  Volcanic lava can have many different minerals in it.  Sometimes the lava is made up of mostly quartz and if it cools really fast it becomes the rock known as obsidian.  So, if you follow the rock cycle, the lava cools to obsidian, gets eroded to quartz sand, then gets cemented into sandstone with time and pressure.  That rock may eventually be subducted back into the earth's crust and re-melted.  It can then be ejected from a volcano or other hot spot to create a new rock!  What type of rock will again depend on the minerals present.

Question: Why galaxies are such perfect spirals, and brighter in the middle?
Answer: To expand on what /u/xitssammi wrote:

"Perfect" isn't the right word to use. Sure, some galaxies look like spirals (there are actually other forms they can take, too, like an ellipse), but they are *far* from perfect.

The maths is *somewhat* analogous to a traffic-jam, in a weird way. An individual car can move from the 'beginning', to the 'end', and eventually 'out' of the traffic jam, but if you were to look at it from above, everything looks still, and the jam itself doesn't appear to move.

In a galaxy, rocks and gas and dust are *constantly* moving in and out of the arms of the spiral. Close up, it would like like a royal mess. But the gravity is strong enough that it can keep a 'general shape' to it, and so when we look at pictures from many light years away, it appears to be a nice, tidy spiral.

Question: How do companies like Turbo Tax and H & R Block that do tax returns for you make it's profit since people only use their services once a year?
Answer: Actually a lot of people file their taxes 4 times a year. Anyone working a 1099 job and any business that surpasses a certain minimum revenue level

Question: Fisher v. University of Texas
Answer: Hate to be a bitch, but...

/r/explainlikeimfive/comments/1gz0cd/eli5_the_scotus_ruling_in_fisher_v_university_of/

Is that the one? I can ELI5 following a link if you want :) but it would just be "click that link and eat your dinner!!!"

Question: what's the difference between ram air parachutes and the round ones?
Answer: You can maneuver a ram air parachute.  Ram airs are for stunts and for people who want control after the chute opens.  You can traverse a lot of lateral distance if you want.  Basically "fly" the chute.  Experienced jumpers could jump at high altitude from far away and land on a pinpiont that is miles away from the point of opening.  Great for covert military ops when you want to surprise whoever is on the ground.  The disadvantage is that the ram air is MUCH less stable in flight.  It requires constant maneuvering and effort to stay on target.  They are less safe.  There is a possibility that a novice could lose control of the chute.

Round chutes pretty much drop straight down upon release, have little control, and travel wherever the wind decides to take you.  The great advantage to a round chute is that they are very stable and much more safe for a novice jumper, such as paratroopers in WW2 that had little if any time to practice jumping.  Round chutes are also great for dead-weight cargo drops and slowing decents of spacecraft or aircraft on short runways.

Question: Why are international students a financial benefit to the school they're going to?
Answer: For local students, a large part is paid for by the government, which generally comes with a large number of strings attached. The government will generally offer money, loans, land, tax breaks etc but in exchange might limit the fees charged, or require universities to accept certain students etc.  This means that some courses might cause the university to make a loss.

Foreign students are generally not paid for by the government, so they can charge what ever a student is willing to pay. So a university can look at how much it will cost to offer a course, possibly add a mark up and tell the international students that is the fee.  If the students are unable to pay it, the university doesn't accept them.

Question: Why can't LA desalinize ocean water to curb the effects of drought?
Answer: Energy consumption. It takes a massive amount of energy for desalination.

It's getting cheaper all the time, and we're getting better at it and producing more energy, but it's still usually more expensive than alternatives.

It's also cheaper to conserve than desalinate. And the state can make money through fines!

[More reading!] (_URL_0_)

Question: Why do ballpoint pens become unusable even though their see-through cartridges are shown with full ink?
Answer: If the ink can't flow, it doesn't matter how much there is. Ball point pens can become damaged, or clogged with crap far before they run out of ink.

Question: How are Apple Pay, Samsung pay, Google wallet different?
Answer: >  Aren't they all NFC?

Samsung bought a company called LoopPay so Samsung Pay is NFC or MST (magnetic secure transmission, basically faking a magnetic stripe). 

 >  If so, why aren't all of them accepted everywhere?

Because NFC is currently still accepted at only a minority of places in the United States. 

 >  Seems like most machines have that capability.

In absolute terms, at this point, a majority probably do have the capability, but it's not actually turned on at many places.

 >  Can businesses block one kind but not another? 

They can either block all NFC payments or none at all, but they can't block only *some* NFC payments. They can also just not have the terminal accessible to the customer, which pretty definitively blocks everything. 

Backing up though: 

 >  How are Apple Pay, Samsung pay, Google wallet different?

Samsung Pay and Android Pay work exactly like Apple Pay except that Samsung Pay also has MST. Google Wallet was replaced by Android Pay (and the name reused, again), but worked in a different way. With Apple Pay (and later Samsung/Android Pay, but to keep it simple I'll just refer to Apple Pay here), your issuing bank must be signed up for the service. When you add a card to your device the issuer generates a token, which looks like a normal card number but is used only for Apple Pay. When you pay, your device sends the token (plus other stuff for security that I'm skipping) to the merchant who sends it to their processor who sends it to the issuer who maps it back to your real account. Note that Apple is *not* part of the transaction and doesn't know what you're buying. The old Google Wallet (confusingly also grandfathered in for Android Pay) worked in a different manner. You stored your actual card number directly with Google, who issued you a virtual prepaid MasterCard. All transactions in the store were then charged to this MasterCard and Google then charged your real card. Every transaction was thus two transaction with information about every purchase going directly to Google, an advertising company.

Question: Why is it that alcohol does not have to have the ingredients or nutritional facts printed on the bottle?
Answer: It all depends on whether something is regulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA, part of the Department of Health and Human Services) or the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB, part of the Treasury Department.) Only FDA-controlled items are required to have nutrition labels. For TTB beverages, it's voluntary. There have been efforts to standardize this, but nothing's ever come of it. The historical reason for this split is simple: Alcohol has always been an important source of government revenue, much more so than food.

Distilled spirits (aka hard liquor), wine, and malt beverages (aka beer and malt liquor) are all under TTB control. This creates some peculiar exceptions. Gluten-free "beer" made with something besides malted barley is an FDA-controlled beverage with a nutrition label. Hard cider is just as alcoholic as beer, but it's not malted, so needs a label. (For some purposes, it's apparently treated as wine.)

Question: Is it possible to "crush" water? What would happen?
Answer: If you increase pressure on water, you will eventually get ice.  There are 15 known types of ice, depending on the pressure and temperature.

Question: Why do mammals like humans and dogs tilt their heads when confused?
Answer: They do not do it because they are confused, per se. Tilting their head gives them a different angle on the sound and helps them figure out more accurately where the sound is coming from, or to understand more accurately what the sound actually is. It's just a way for them to get additional information about the sound. 

This can also be a learned behavior in dogs, because humans think it is cute and give them affection when they do it, so they may learn to exaggerate the behavior over time.

edit: my response is talking specifically about dogs. Humans may also do this for similar reasons, as other commenters have noted.

Question: SQL Injection
Answer: In naive code, you'd generate an SQL statement by writing something like:

    sql = "SELECT * FROM products WHERE code = '" + product_code + "';"

If product_code is set to ABC123, that code would generate an SQL statement that looks like:

    SELECT * FROM products WHERE code = 'ABC123';

If the product code came from user input, then the user could enter something like the following:

    '; UPDATE products SET price = 0.01; SELECT '

Then the code would generate the following SQL statement:

    SELECT * FROM products WHERE code = '''; UPDATE products SET price = 0.01; SELECT ''

This allows the user to bypass your application code and set the price on all the products in your system.

Question: What makes Ouija boards move and why do so many people believe it's spirits when it seems almost impossible that it is?
Answer: If people are touching the piece you move around, one of them is doing it. If spirits were communicating with them they wouldn’t need to touch it.

Question: If military service in the US could be represented in hourly wages, how much would the different ranks be paid?
Answer: There's absolutely no way to calculate this.

Everyone in the military works a different amount of hours. Some will put in 24 hours in one day while others maybe do literally nothing and still get paid for it.

Some start at 4 in the morning. Some start at 4 in the afternoon.

Going on deployment means working 24 hrs a day every day. You're given "days off" that can easily be canceled for whatever reason. Remember, bad guys don't stop shooting at you during your "day off".

The reason I'm mentioning all of this is because you CAN'T calculate a $/hr ratio because hours are never ever set.

Pay grades are what we use. [These are public record](_URL_0_) and can be viewed by anyone. Pay grade determines how much you make every month, regardless of hours put in. It's like a salary and it's calculated by your rank and by your time in the service.

Officers make more than warrant officers.  
Warrants make more than NCOs/enlisted.

If you want to know how much someone makes, take their monthly pay times 12 and then divide by 8760 (hours in a year). That's how much they make an hour every day.

Edit: Before I got out (I only stayed in for 11 years) I was offered my E6. Had I taken it, I would have been making $4.77/hr every hour of every day of the year ($41,760/yr).

Edit: Hey guys! How does this work?  
\*Gives full explanation\*  
Cool! Thanks! Have a down vote!

Edit 2: Glad that grumpy people are gone and the level headed people are here. I appreciate just being above 0. :P

Question: Why can't deep web/dark web websites be closed?
Answer: They are operated by individuals hosting servers in various countries. And first, you need to find the server/website then find the person hosting/paying for it. It will usually be in some remote country with little jurisdiction. Now, they have to produce a court order in that country. 

TL;DR; It is a huge pain in the butt; Unless they have to, they don't bother with it.

Question: Enamel protection products claim “once enamel is gone, it’s gone forever”. How true is this and if so, how do you explain enamel restoring toothpaste?
Answer: My dentist explained to me that teeth will calcify and decalcify over time. A fluoride rinse or toothpaste can aid in this process, but if you have deep cavities and the enamel is beginning to form that sticky *tar* like consistency, that probably isn't going to recalcify sufficiently. In essence they determine that by probing with a pick and trouble spots are generally flagged as "watches" so they can be routinely checked every six months assuming you keep up with your bi-annuals. 

But you should still use fluoride toothpaste/rinse, there's still plenty of benefit but its not going to heal a cavity that needs to be filled by a dentist. Another thing to consider is your vitamin D levels which may lead to cavities if you are deficient.

Question: If I didn't know something was illegal, how could I get in trouble for it?
Answer: Not knowing the law is not, in itself, a defense. This is a pretty important legal principle, important enough to [have its own Latin phrase](_URL_0_). I'm not quite sure what you're asking, since there's no particular reason you *wouldn't* get in trouble for it.

Question: how do countries introduce new currencies
Answer: First they print a whole bunch of new currency and distribute it to banks. Then they establish an exchange rate, and set a deadline after which the old currency can no longer be used or exchanged.

Question: When it rains really heavily, how come ants don't "drown". How about when it floods?
Answer: Ants burrow up to one foot deep in the ground, and no matter how hard the rain is, they will remain safe. However, in floods where the ground stays moist for days on end, they will die. However, like demonstrated after heavy rain and floods in Pakistan, bugs will take to the trees and higher ground

Question: How do they know which eggs don't have baby chicks in them, when they take eggs to sell??
Answer: None of them do, because the hens are not allowed access to roosters, so they don't mate, and none of the eggs are fertilized.

Question: How do the Death Stars move?
Answer: It depends on what level of canon you are looking for.

If you accept the Gaming books, the Death Star Technical Companion (at least one of them, I believe there were several) lists it as having both Ion drives and a series of 123 hyper-drive field generators (Chapter two, Technical Specifications).

Given that the reactor was deep inside, we could well have been seeing the ports the Ion drives used, and never realized it. In most space vehicles that we see, the source of the propulsion is visible as it's close to where it's being emitted, and we see the burning / glow / whatever -- In the Death Star, the Reactor was deep inside. I believe the Ion output ports were inside that trench along the middle.

Question: Why do certain people faint or feel weak at the sight of blood.
Answer: A fear of blood can trigger the vasovagal response, which dramatically lowers blood pressure. No one really knows exactly why that happens, but there's speculation that it might be a way of reducing bleeding when wounded.

It never used to happen to me, but last time I cut myself with a kitchen knife while cooking, I felt woozy and had to sit down so I wouldn't fall over. It was very weird.

_URL_0_

Question: What is the link in hebrew between the alphabet and numericals values and what does it mean for us?
Answer: The Hebrew language uses letters to represent numbers, as well as using letters to form words. The meaning is contextual, but as a consequence any word could be interpreted as a number as well.

This structure combined with the religious writings in Hebrew means that mentally ill people with an obsession with religion and a mathematic streak can become fixated on looking for numeric patterns in religious texts written in Hebrew. With so much material to work with practically any number can be obtained to justify the convoluted justifications formed through their mental illness.

What does it mean for us? Nothing, crazy people are still crazy even if they do math with prose.

Question: How come when it is very windy outside, the water in the toilet bowl seems to be moving?
Answer: When air moves over something it creates low pressure, the faster it moves, the lower the pressure will get.

Those pipes that stick up out of the roof are attached to the drainage system of the house so when you flush or run the tub, sink, washing machine, etc... the water will be able to go down the pipes and not be stuck like when you hold your finger on the top of a straw and lift it out of the drink.

When wind blows over the house, it will create a lower pressure in the drain pipes and the water in the toilet will be pulled in/down just a little bit, and when the wind slows down the pressure goes back to normal and the water will come back up just a little.  This can make the water appear to be sloshing or making itty-bitty waves/ripples as it goes up and down.

Question: why couldn't the next Presidential candidate just promise to abolish some of the far reaching NSA programs?
Answer: They could. The thing is, campaign promises are unenforceable. Obama promised to end the Afghanistan war, close Gitmo, protect whistleblowers and have a transparent administration.

Question: Why so much hate towards Russians?
Answer: Due to the rivalry between the US and Russia (which then extends to the west and Russia), Politicians from the west have focused on the negatives of Russia to drag its name down. The media repeats and excgarates these views because it sells well to the brainwashes public.

Russia isn't as horrible a place as it's made out to be.

Question: Why doesn't the US school system slowly implement Metric teachings into school so that eventually it can be the main system?
Answer: I thought all schools taught metric at some point?

I remember learning it. I use it professionally so maybe I'm misremembering but I'm pretty sure exactly this happens.

Metric is slowly gaining ground. I can't see a day when speed limits get posted in km/h but already many items are set in metric.

Also a number of imperial units have been resized to "fit" metric. A fifth used to be 757ml but it got redefined at 750ml to make it a clean fit.

2L bottles are common and most liquids will have both the imperial and the metric quantity listed.

Question: How is dead vs alive identified in organisms?
Answer: Viruses are not considered living organisms because the lack the ability to reproduce on their own.  They must use the machinery of the host's cell to reproduce.  Also they aren't composed of cells that can divide and proliferate.  Viruses do not have a metabolism, they do not grow, they produce no waste products, and they do not respond to stimuli. Some scientists think separating everything into two classes: "living" and "dead" whilst being practical is not right and that viruses may be classified as somewhere in between.

Question: How did it come to be that the United States is mainly controlled by only 2 political parties?
Answer: [CGP Grey has made a really good video on the subject](_URL_0_)

Question: How lottery cards are made?
Answer: The non playing areas are all the same and made by standard off-set printing methods.  A special printer based on the same technology as ink jet printers selects numbers at random from a computer bank and prints them on the playing area, along with the unique bar code.  Then off-set printing is used to cover the numbers with scratchable ink.

Question: If all the land on Earth started as one mass (Pangea) and is slowly moving further away, won't there be a point where it all comes back together again?
Answer: It could.

Rodinia was a supercontinent that broke up and then came back together eventually as Pangaea.

It is hard to predict continental movement with precision though. 

_URL_0_

Pangaea Ultima is a possible future supercontinent.

Question: How can insects fall from proportionally insane heights and suffer no damage?
Answer: Put simply, if you make something twice as big, it weighs EIGHT TIMES as much. If you go in the other direction (making something half as big), then it weighs 1/8 what it did before. So you can see that something that's REALLY small will weigh almost nothing. 

Also, for really small things like insects, air acts like it's pretty thick. All those legs and body pieces slow them down, sort of like a parachute.

Insects don't weigh much, and the air slows them down quite a bit. That's why humans fall like a rock and insects sort of don't. 

EDIT: More infos, gathered up from the comments.

They say falling doesn't kill you--its the sudden stop at the end. While ants top out at about 4mph in freefall (and humans go on to 125mph or more), what really saves their bacon is being so light. Since they weigh so little, there's a lot less of them that has to be slowed down when their little anty body hits the ground.

Question: whats wrong with raising chickens with the use of antibiotics?
Answer: When people are stating 'animals raised with antibiotics' it's not saying that antibiotics are given when the animal is sick, which is how medicine is usually doled out, it means the animal is given antibiotics regularly regardless of their health.

Which sorta works as a preventative measure, but the problem is that it creates an evolutionary pressure for antibiotic-resistant bacteria strains, which are bad for us should we ingest contaminated meats.

Question: Will I hit a baseball farther if the pitcher initially throws the ball faster?
Answer: Yes, you understand correctly. It's easier to hit a home run if the pitcher throws a fastball.

_URL_0_

Question: How does a pill prescribed to you know exactly what to do in your body?
Answer: Pills don't know anything. Your take medicine and your body will absorb it. It may be absorbed into the blood and travel all around your body. If you take a pain reliever, it is not targeting your headache but is dispersed through the whole body. The only noticeable change is that the pain goes away in the place that hurt. Researchers do not always know exactly how a drug works, either. They may use observation and trial  &  error to come up with a result in drug research, often in addition to previous experiences/research based on scientific methods.

Question: How do people edit gifs/video or things in motion?
Answer: Yes you have to edit every single frame. Its usually done with adobe after effect or Sony Vegas. There are plenty tutorials around the web if you are interested in that yourself.

Question: Why does thoroughly washing frequently not prevent acne?
Answer: Acne can also be caused by diet, and sometimes washing too frequently can irritate your skin and make breakouts worse.

Question: if flying a fighter jet in another country's airspace is considered hostile, then how do landlocked countries send their fighters outside of their borders?
Answer: They ask other countries' permission to fly over their territory. It's only considered hostile to fly fighter jets in another country's airspace **without** permission.

Question: The NSA's PRISM Program
Answer: One of the great challenges of the 21st century is figuring out how our old laws and constitutional rights apply to digital age technology. New technologies are not exactly analogous to anything that was around when the constitution was written, so it's unclear what's meant to be protected and prohibited. If I'm in a bank and I write a letter, and that letter is readable by the security camera, does the tape break the constitution? Could it be used in ways that violate the constitution? What happens if someone notices my letter while investigating the bank for something else? We'll be coming back to this.

PRISM is a bulk data collection plan by the NSA. Every electronic communication, from your phone calls to your emails to your texts are all delivered by digital transmission. What that means is that you make a copy, your ISP makes a copy, and then they make a third copy at the destination. The NSA keeps a copy of the ISP records for themselves. In essence, by an accident of digital technology, there's always a camera looking at us writing letters, and while the NSA isn't reading every letter, it's saving all the camera film in case it wants to look at a letter one day. They would argue that you shouldn't have the expectation of privacy while writing a letter in a bank, and that you shouldn't have the expectation that no one has a copy of your email when you pay your ISP to copy it in three or four places for you.

This is a real grey area, constitutionally. When the laws against unwarranted search and seizure were written, opening your mail meant having someone intercept the letter written in private, opening it, actually reading it, then sending it on to you. That's much more invasive and personal than what the NSA is doing because no human being is actually reading any of your letters - they've just got a digital time machine to read any letter that was ever sent to you if they get a warrant.

Critics of PRISM will point out that the security is pretty lax. There's nothing to stop an agent from opening any random letter without a warrant. While you would notice if the police opened a physical envelope with your mail, you have no way of knowing if someone accessed a copy of your emails. Accusations from Edward Snowden were that the NSA is not policing itself in an adequate way and that agents were routinely accessing copies of letters without a court order. This criticism is genuine, and it's my opinion that an outside agency (preferably the FBI) should conduct annual audits of NSA file use. 

It's not at all clear if the constitution was meant to stop bulk data collection or not. I think that at this point, a constitutional amendment would be needed to render the actions unconstitutional. Whether such an amendment should be passed is a matter of opinion.

Question: How do television/film sets avoid revealing the forth wall via reflective props?
Answer: By limiting the number of reflective props, and picking the right angles to film from.

It's really as simple as that. Think of it like how you are able to drive your car without hitting buildings -- you're trained in it, and you do it every day.

Question: How does recording sound/changing volume work?
Answer: Sound waves are tiny compressions/decompressions of air happening really really fast. If you put your head in front of a fan, or a huge speaker, you can actually feel these in your face. Microphones are a way to convert these waves into electrical signals and speakers can convert the signals into waves.

Microphones contain an electrical resistor whose resistance depends on it's length. The receiving part of the microphone (basically, a disk-shaped soft material called a membrane) is attached on this variable resistor. When the pressure area of a sound wave hits the receiving part, it makes it move. This movement alters the length of the resistor and causes the electric current flowing through it to be altered as well. 

The electronic device attached to the microphone, which is like an amplifier for very small currents, can understand and process these tiny alteration to the flow of the electrical current.

The speaker is pretty much the opposite of a microphone. It also contains a part that moves but in this case the stimuli is not the sound wave but the altered current. Instead of a variable resistor, the speaker has something like a specially made electric motor. This motor moves up/down and causes the speaker's membrane to move as well. The movement of the membrane creates sound waves.

Fun fact: today's microphones and speakers are optimised for the task but older ones were interchangeable. I.e. you could use a speaker as a microphone.

Question: Why are some people more likely to have sleep paralysis, while others never have it or have only experienced it once?
Answer: Everyone or, at least, most people are capable of having sleep paralysis. Its nothing special as far as chemical imbalance go or something in genes or dealing with immune (it's been noted to be a common occurrence in narcoleptic people). But experiencing that transition from physically awake to mentally awake can vary from person to person and age. Most children will experience it more commonly than adults due growing and experiencing the world, in general, while sleeping. That's how you get a laundry list of childhood fears relating the darkness, nighttime and sleep.

Question: Why do many people in western countries have dash cams?
Answer: Police are few and far between. If you get in an accident with someone, you might wait for 30-45 minutes before a cop shows up. Many people who get in accidents just drive away and the victim of the accident is left on the side of the road with their thumb up their ass and no proof of what happened or who did it. 
So... Dashboard cameras...

Question: How are there so many massage parlours in one area?
Answer: First of all, those places *are* legal in Toronto.  Their biggest worry is zoning laws.  Zoning may have pushed them to your neighbourhood and not others.  
     
You see a lot of massage parlours in your neighbourhood.  That may not be the same everywhere.  These parlours may be servicing a larger territory than you realize. 
      
Your friends may not be telling you everything.  You may know more happy-ending customers than you realize.
    
Massage parlours have lower rent than coffee shops.  Coffee shops need relatively expensive locations so they can easily capture foot traffic.  Massage parlours can be upstairs from a noisy restaurant.
     
Massage parlours collect more per customer than a coffee shop.  Combined with cheaper rent, they require fewer customers per hour to cover their expenses.  If their territory is actually larger than the coffee shops', they may have more customers than you realize.
        
To learn more, visit _URL_0_.

Question: I live in the US. Why should I vote?
Answer: Even if you don't feel like your vote for president matters much, there are way more things on your ballot than president: state government stuff, county government, city government, the local school board, various levies for parks and roads and such. Every vote counts in many of these, and they arguably have a bigger, more immediate, effect on your life than the choice of president. Most of these aren't as straightforward red vs blue affairs either.

Question: Do animals have beauty standards? For example, would a randy male goat ever look at a really ugly, old female goat and think "nah"? Or would they just screw literally anything of the same species and opposite gender?
Answer: It depends a bit on the species but often animals are picky about whom they mate with.  Male animals are usually more brightly colored than females and this is most likely because it attracts a mate's attention which shows there is some level of visual attractiveness involved.

Question: Why is Spotify on my computer basically premium with ads, but mobile is a crippled, shuffle-only mess?
Answer: The free Spotify serves two purposes: 1) Being a "demo" of what full Spotify is to try to get people to go premium and 2) Still make money with people who don't want to pay, through ads. The paying system is a lot more profitable, that's why there are ads asking you to go premium.

Now when making the free version they faced a dilemma: If the system is too good people won't want to go premium, but if it's too bad people won't like it at all and the ones who would stay free will migrate to other services. So they probably concluded the current scheme is the best one, people get to try it freely on PC (with ads, because many will stay free forever), but if they want the full mobile experience too (the focus of the service) they have to go premium. But just to get a taste of how mobile works they can play playlists, but in shuffle. It's a question of balance.

Question: Why do our faces looks different in different mirrors and different cameras and which image is the real one on people's eyes?
Answer: It's not so much that we look different in mirrors vs cameras, more that when we know we're seeing ourselves (in a mirror, or when taking a selfie with a front-facing camera) we subconsciously hold ourselves and our faces differently so we look "better".

When someone takes a photo of us and we *can't* see ourselves during the process, we don't do that, we just hold ourselves somewhat more naturally.

Speaking of front-facing cameras, they're deceptive and if you're close enough to them (as you would be if taking a selfie) they can slightly warp the image depending on your angle, which again has an impact.

If you wanna know how you look to other people, have a friend video you from a moderate-but-reasonable distance, I'd say.  That's gonna be your most natural bet.

Question: McDonald's employees! Why is the ice cream machine always down?
Answer: Sometimes it's out of ice cream and we just say it's down. Sometimes the whole store is out of ice cream and we say it's down. Sometimes the machine is broken and we say it's down. Sometimes it's overheated and we say it's down. Sometimes we don't feel like serving ice cream so we say it's down.

Question: How do spiders make the strands of web that go horizontally from tree to tree, that hit you in about the face when your hiking?
Answer: They float them. I assume you are not asking about the spinneret glands which produce the spider silk. Biologists have examined these and described there physical shape in detail. The exact biochemical process probably is still a  mystery.

But to get the strands across what are vast spaces to spiders the strands are so light they float. Some spiders produce them while young and float around with the breeze which helps them disperse.

but to get back to the ones which you encounter while hiking the spiders wait for a favorable breeze and float a strand. The silk is sticky. It will attach.

Question: How does my electric toothbrush charge without any metallic contacts?
Answer: Magnetic induction. The charger creates an oscillating magnetic field (it quickly switches back and forth pointing one way and then the other) and this interacts with metal inside the toothbrush to create an electric current which charges the toothbrush.

It works because the magnetic field can penetrate the plastic (which you can see for yourself by playing with strong magnets through objects) and the effect that changing magnetic fields has on metal is the basis for the vast majority of our electrical production, this is just on a smaller scale.

Question: Why are mid-90s shows like Friends available in high definition, while shows from the same time period (and same network) like Frasier only in standard definition?
Answer: It depends on the media used to record the show - traditional film can be rescanned at higher resolution, magnetic media maybe, maybe not. It also depends on how much money the studios think they will make by re-releasing.

Question: How does stress physically change our body especially our digestive system.
Answer: Your viewpoint would imply that you believe the mind is somehow entirely separate from the body. This isn't the case, though. The mind is a product of the brain; minds are what our brains "do" (well, part of it). 

When your mind is experiencing stress, it's literally a physical condition in your brain; usually the release of things like stress hormone (cortisol). Prolonged periods of having things like cortisol elevated in your body are bad for you, physically.

Question: why doesn't California raise water prices?
Answer: They've tried, but [the Constitution of California prohibits raising water prices above cost](_URL_0_).

Question: The Binding of Issac, Time Gate Controversy
Answer: The Binding of Isaac got a total remake a year ago. It used to be a very popular flash game and the creator, Edmund McMillen, handed it over to Nicalis to remake it in a new engine. When the remake released, lots of hype was built up over all the "secrets" the developers hid in the game, and everyone was excited to solve all puzzles and stuff. Not even a few weeks after the release, dataminers solved these puzzles and the community got pretty angry about it. Edmund specifically expressed [his dissatisfaction](_URL_1_) with the whole deal, and stated that putting secrets in games is pointless as long as dataminers exist.

Flash forward to now, the game got a huge DLC, and everyone's been playing it a ton. Everything was going great until a recent patch to the game, which added supposed missing content to the game. People think that Edmund planned a [time gate](_URL_7_) to this content to prevent dataminers from figuring out everything immediately. Lots of people [overreacted](_URL_2_) to this and started giving Edmund shit for giving cryptic hints instead of admitting mistakes. /r/bindingofisaac made tons of [posts](_URL_5_) [calling](_URL_4_) [him](_URL_0_) [out](_URL_6_) and Edmund is telling us to calm ourselves down. 

Personally, I believe the missing content was an honest bug, and he wouldn't fuck with the community as much as this. People are in a salty outrage for thinking he did, and he will express his opinion in a blog post soon. Until then this is largely speculation.


EDIT: [his thoughts on the situation](_URL_3_)

Question: Why does the clock appear to stop for one second when you stare directly at it?
Answer: Do you mean when you quickly shift your vision to it? This is related to saccadic masking. "Saccadic" comes from rapid eye motion.

When you quickly move your eyes, your visual processing is "blocked". This also comes with a temporal perception element. When your eye motion stops as you look at the clock, the time period that elapsed *while* your eyes were moving is interpreted by the brain as if it's been spent looking at a static image of the first thing you see as your eye movement stops. It's sort of a backwards overlap of your time perception.

This means you can get the impression that the clock has stayed in that position for longer than a second, if the clock happened to move during your eye movement. It's called [Chronostasis](_URL_0_) and the clock illusion is the most common example given for it.

Question: Can the US government target Americans in drone killings, and is there evidence they have done so before?
Answer: [Anwar al-Awlaki](_URL_0_) was American born and killed by a Predator drone strike in Yemen.  One side is arguing that it is illegal to kill an American citizen without a trial.  The other side is arguing that he is an enemy of the state and has forfeited his right to judicial protection by taking up arms against the United States.

In Rand Paul's case his filibuster was to get the administration to state concretely that American citizens within the United States have full protection of the law which the administration has come out and stated that they do and drone strikes within the United States are illegal.

Question: How are interest rates for savings accounts determined? Why mine seems like it's the lowest in history ?
Answer: I believe it has to do with the rate which the Fed lends to the banks, and the rate the Fed sets for banks to lend to each other. Since interest rates are so low right now (to encourage borrowing), the banks aren't making as much profit on loan interest rates to give attractive interest rates of savings accounts. So they are trying to give you the highest rate (they are required to have so much money on hand and need money to lend out to borrowers at a higher interest rate) they can while still turning a profit. But since borrowing interest rates are so low as it is, saving rates are even lower. I'm not sure if this is going to make much sense..

Question: What is soap?
Answer: Soap is a chemical that has two ends. One of those ends is attracted to the dirt on your hands or in your clothes. The other end is attracted to water. So, when you put soap on your hands, one end burrows into the dirt while the other ends washes it away with the water from the faucet.

Question: How come you get tired of eating the same dinner more than two days in a row but you can eat the same breakfast for years on end?
Answer: Back when the U.S. military was developing MREs, they were trying to figure out how to get troops to eat the same handful of meals over several weeks. They realized everyone loved heavily spiced food at first, but got burnt out on it quickly. Meanwhile, they had no problem eating bland foods day after day.  Since breakfast foods tend to be bland, it's easier to eat the same thing over and over again than if you had the meals you normally eat for dinner, which are usually flavorful, every night.

Question: What causes the air to move slower under a planes wing?
Answer: The short answer. It doesn't. It moves at the same speed. What creates flight is relative densities of the air above and below an airplanes wing. The curve shape of the top of the wing pushed air out of the way while the flat shape underneath allows air to flow underneath. This creates more density underneath than there is above. This causes the air to move up to fill the empty space lifting the plane with it in the process.

Question: Why didn't the British just send troops into the Boston and Philadephia harbors and squash the American Revolution in it's main cities?
Answer: Several reasons -

1 - It was horrendously expensive.  Like... really expensive.  The Americas are a long long way from England and the passage was not easy.  Shipping any amount of troops would be a serious feat of logistics.

2 - It was not their highest priority.  We Americans like to think that our Revolution was a big deal.  We forget that while we were doing our thing England was battling France, Spain and everybody else off and on.  If England focused all of its might on quashing the Americans then perhaps France would snipe out other colonies or even attack England directly!

3 - It wouldn't have fixed the problem.  They did take Boston, and Philadelphia, AND New York.  That didn't stop the Americans.  We just kept fighting in (as we put it) a good old fashioned "Indian war".  The British had to quash American resistance completely, taking major cities didn't do that.

Question: Why Americans think they won the War of 1812?
Answer: The Americans think that they won because they accomplished the majority their objectives by the end of the war. You seem to be under the impression that the Americans entered the war in order to eventually annex Canada, which isn't really true. Some of the western territories in the US did want to annex Canadian territory, but this issue was never pursued by the federal US government, and these sentiments didn't really factor in to their decision to go to war.

These were the wartime objectives stated by the US: 

1) impressment of U.S. sailors (Forcing them to join the British navy).

2) Interference in American trade, and hence with American sovereignty/independence. This was primary due to a conflict between the British and French, which caused US exports to suffer due to the actions of both powers.

3) "Indian question" -- in the Northwest frontier wars. the British supported the Indians, making it harder for the American's to realise the vision behind their frontier war.

By the end of the war of 1812, these objectives had all been addressed. They ended the war in a better situation than they had been when they started. 

On top of all this, they also came away from the war with some pretty valuable perks. Naval expansion due to the war with the British helped them reach a swift victory in the Second Barbary War of 1815 (addressed the problem of the Barbary pirates), earning them the freedom to sail the seas and trade more safely. 

The reason why it is sort of difficult to call the ending of the war a military victory for the US is that most of these objectives were not really met as a direct consequence of the war. Impressment of American sailors by the Brits was on the decline when the war started, but due to slow communication between the two powers this didn't factor in to the Americans' decision. Britain's interference with american trade was eventually scaled back after their war with France ended. 

Hope this clears things up a little bit.

Question: Let's say I'm watching a 24fps movie on my 60Hz computer monitor. How does the framerate of the movie match up with the refresh rate of the monitor?
Answer: Don't quote me on this, but I think that it works like this;

The monitor refreshes a complete display 60 times in every second, the movie shows a new image 24 times in every second. Imagine that you have a friend standing outside your window with a flip-book and he was flipping the pages 24 times every second, and you were able to close and open the curtains 60 times a second. The two aren't linked and work independantly, so it doesn't matter that they run at differing speeds. Besides, at those sort of speeds, you would barely even notice (if at all) a dropped frame here or there.

Question: ELI5: Why do big companies, who have a multitude of resources at their disposal, buy out smaller companies, especially apps like "Summlly" which Yahoo bought for $30M, instead of just making it algorithm themselves?
Answer: 1. Coming up with algorithms as nice as the ones Summly came up with is not easy. If Yahoo started tomorrow it might take a team of 12 people a year to come close to replicating it - and with the wrong choice of 12 people they might easily fail. Buying a company with an existing working product is much less risky than trying to duplicate it.
2. Often the company wants to hire the people, more than the product itself. Perhaps Yahoo has bigger plans and they need people with the specific talent and expertise who were able to come up with Summly, to help with something bigger and more ambitious.
3. Sometimes it's more strategic - they don't want their competitors to have that company, they'd rather own it than compete against it.

Question: Why are some eggs brown and some white?
Answer: Good question. Now, let me ask you a question: If you had a baby, what color would it be?

I'm not a magician. I don't know your ethnicity. But I can safely assume that your kid is going to have a skin tone similar to your own (interracial unions aside for the moment).

White eggs come from white chickens and brown eggs come from brown chickens. The same is true in the chicken world. White eggs come from white chickens and brown eggs come from brown-ish chickens. Most of the eggs in your supermarket come from the following breeds of chickens: the White Leghorn, the Rhode Island Red, the New Hampshire, and the Plymouth Rock.

White Leghorn chickens are white and lay white eggs. Rhode Island Red, New Hampshire and Plymouth Rock chickens are all reddish brown and lay brown or brown-speckled eggs.

Let's get weird for a second and pretend you have a chicken sitting beside you. Imagine this crazy chicken is kind of an off-white brownish yellow. You're no chicken expert and you have no idea what breed you're looking at. Here's the secret to predicting the color of eggs a chicken will lay: look at their earlobes. This is true stuff. The pigments in the outer layer of the eggshell will always approximate the color of the earlobe of the chicken that laid the egg.

A natural follow-up question would be "Is one color of egg healthier than the other?" According to the Egg Nutrition Center in Washington, D.C., the answer is a pretty firm "no". The color of the shell has nothing to do with egg quality, nutritional value or flavor. They say the reason brown eggs cost more is because the brown-egg variety of chickens are bigger eaters and cost more to feed. The cost is then pushed forward to the consumer. I happen to believe the real reason is that the health food industry is perpetuating the myth that brown eggs are healthier. There, I said it.

Question: How can games companies sell unfinished games and in some cases games that are unplayable (Activision)?
Answer: Simply answer, because consumers keep buying them.

Longer answer, due to the new and easier channels of distribution, mainly pre-order, digital downloads, etc. games can be bought way before any serious reviews by game critics or consumers alike have been established.

So by the time the problems of a game are known, the majority of sales have already been made. Coupled with promises of updates and fixes, many consumers stick around or even buy the game later when it's fixed.

This way game companies get both, the money from early buyers who purchase the game without knowing it's quality as well as patient gamers who wait until the game is fixed.

Since this behavior doesn't seem to damage the long-term reputation of the company it remains a viable business model.

Question: LD50 values and its relation to humans.
Answer: No, it wouldn't necessarily translate exactly, but it does for many common substances.

 >  For example if a substance has an LD50 of 190mg/kg in a rat, assuming you have an average rat (weighing about 500g) and a human of 77kg (170lbs), how would you go about that?

The LD50 here is expressed as mg (of substance) per kg (of body weight). So assuming the rates are the same, it's still 190 mg/kg in humans, but that's a larger dose because humans are bigger.

Question: How can restaurants accurately calculate calories per dish or item?
Answer: It's not accurate. They're allowed a rather generous deviation from what is the actual amount of calories. For example, applies might be five calories per ten ounces on average, and if you give apples as a side and most apples you sell are considered 15 ounces, you only have 7.5 calories. But that's just an average. There's been several instances where people complain because the variance can be so high, you can have a dish say it's only 450 calories but be closer to 600.

Question: Why are vision problems so common in humans?
Answer: humans need glasses to see fine detail, like letters.  in a hunter gatherer sense, 99% of peoples vision is probably sufficient.  i suspect there are plenty of animals that would want glasses if they were intelligent enough to know they were missing out on something.  but since most land animals have a highly developed sense of smell compared to humans, they probably dont care.

Question: If all of the cells in our bodies are replaced within a matter of years, how are tattoos permanent?
Answer: Imagine a bucket filled with ping pong balls. That's your skin. The ping pong balls are your skin cells. Now imagine filling the bucket with some water. That's the tattoo ink.  You can replace any or all of those balls, and they might take some water with them, but that water is pretty much going to stay in the bucket.

Question: Why we don’t generate electricity from sound waves while electricity is needed to produce a sound wave ?
Answer: We do generate electricity from sound waves. That's how a microphone works. The problem is that sound isn't powerful enough to create a enough electricity to be useful for anything other than capturing an audio signal. Even with sophisticated microphones we need to amplify the signal a lot to make it useful again.

Question: How does basic stock exchange work and how would one get started?
Answer: You buy a stock that's priced at $1.50 a unit, you buy 10 shares for $15

The next day it goes up to $4 a unit because there was a successful merger, they released a new product that everyone likes, etc. and you sell your 10 stocks for $40 giving you a $25 profit which you then use to buy other stocks priced low.

As to how one would get started. Stockbrokers come to mind first. You give these guys $5000, they make the best investments that they can think of, and grow your money for you, of course they take a cut of the profit, be it 5%, 10% whatever.

Many insurance companies also allow you to grow your insurance through investments, from your $126 a month premium, you can opt for some of that to go towards investments, which will be given back to in one of 3 ways.
* PUAs Paid-up Additions, annually you receive money back from said investments.
* Face value additions, the money earned is added onto your death benefit
* Reduced premiums, any money made will be put towards your premium in order to make it so you don't pay as much.

Of course, if you lose money through insurance investments that money will then either have to be paid back, or your death benefit stands reduced.

Question: How does air conditioning work? Car and house the same, or different?
Answer: Air condition works by exploiting how high and low pressure changes the temperature. [They use a compressor to create a high pressure on one side and a low pressure on the other.](_URL_0_) The high pressure side will increase in temperature, so it will give off heat, this side is outside your car/house/fridge. When it then moves to the low pressure side it expands which lowers the temperature and it will absorb heat. That side in inside your car/house/fridge.

It's really just a device to move heat from one place to another. It moved the heat from inside to the outside.

Question: the legalization of marijuana in Colorado.
Answer: According to [this article](_URL_0_) people 21 years of age can purchase it from specially regulated retail stores, and adults can grow up to 6 plants for personal use. Public use and driving under the influence is still illegal.

Question: How did we figure out that burning rocks would make metal?
Answer: Metal working is *way* past caveman times. 

We figured out fire, and we figured out how to make *hot* fire (which we needed to make strong pottery, which we needed for storage because we figured out agriculture which, incidentally, meant we needed to figure out writing). 

A lot of this is, necessarily, speculative, but the likely scenario is someone put some metal in a hot fire and noticed it melted. Possibly people found free-lying metal deposits, or someone had rocks with a high degree of iron impurities. 

A lot of stuff like this happens *by accident*, and then possibly someone *eventually* thinks of something to do with it.

Question: With modern technology, why don't people get paid and billed electronically by the second or minute instead of monthly?
Answer: The technology isn't really there, or at least hasn't been developed.  If you've ever worked in IT, you'd understand how hard it is to integrate different systems and make them talk to each other.  Such a system would have to built from the ground up and would include real time capturing of hours worked, real time transfer of money to the bank, real time availability of the money on your credit card.  That wouldn't be cheap.  Then, every company and bank would have to adopt those systems.  If your bank doesn't use it, it wouldn't matter if your company does or not.

Question: Why is it when you bend a plastic item it turns a whitish color?
Answer: OK, quick intro to deformation of solids:

There are two types of deformation, *elastic* deformation and *plastic* deformation.  

When you put a small force on something, it will deform a little bit.  When you let go, it will spring back to exactly where it was.  This is elastic deformation.  Think about the atoms of the solid sitting together, bonded to their neighbors.  In elastic deformation, you stretch those bonds, but don't break any of them.  When you let go, they spring back to their original position, and the metal/plastic/whatever goes back to its undeformed state.

However, if you put a large enough force on it, the solid begins to permanently deform.  Remember those atoms bonded to their neighbors?  Now you're pulling hard enough on them that some of those bonds begin to break.  In some solids, like ceramics, glass, and some plastics, the bonds just break without reforming, and the whole solid snaps apart.  These are *brittle* solids.  In others, like metals and certain plastics, the bonds break, the atoms slide a little bit, and then they bond to the next atom they can find.  These are *ductile* solids.  Now, when you let go, the material will spring back a little bit, but not all the way.  There is permanent deformation.  Those atoms that were sliding against each other can't go back to their original positions - they're stuck with their new neighbors.  The point where a ductile material switches from elastic deformation to plastic deformation (aka from non-permanent to permanent deformation) is known as the [yield point](_URL_0_).

So what's happening to your pen?  You're plastically deforming it when you bend it.  It's originally blue, but in the atomic chaos you cause when you slide all those atoms against each other, the crystal structure that caused that blue color is destroyed and you get a messed-up white one instead.

Question: If the computer runs on electricity, why isn't the hard-drive wiped when you turn it off?
Answer: Magnets.

Basically, hard drives sorta look like a record player inside. There's a disk that spins, and a head that can move to various tracks on the disk, reading or writing. 

The way it works is, if you've ever rubbed a nail on a magnet, you'll notice the nail itself gets magnetic. The disks in a hard drive are coated with a magnetic substance, and the heads have tiny electromagnets in them, which put lasting magnetic imprints onto the disk surface, which last even if the power is turned off.

Question: Why when nervous does our mouth become dry ?
Answer: ELI5 version of the actual science:

Your body has two overarching "modes" of existence - rest, and fight or flight (FoF). During rest, you allocate energy towards things like eating and digestion, sleep, and general day-to-day being alive. 

When in an acutely stressful situation, you go I to overdrive. The FoF state puts everything on hold in order to deal with the immediate threat - why waste energy on digestion when you're being chased by a lion?

Saliva primarily acts to aid in initial digestion, softening food and providing some pretty important enzymes to start breaking everything down. However, if your FoF state is activated (by nervousness), you don't need saliva. In fact, saliva production would be counterproductive, as the water being used to make it could be turned into perspiration instead. Just being nervous makes this seem silly, but if you were in the wild fighting for survival it could make a difference.

Question: How do bank ATMs read handwritten checks?
Answer: You're writing the amount in numbers and in letters on the check.

It could mix up 100 with 700, but if he sees "Seven Hundred Dollars", there's no way it could not guess which one is the right one.

I worked in a bank for a short time and among other things I had to verify scanned checks for which the software had trouble to identify the signature (generally I could confirm it was the wife's or husband's signature), so your hidden little man theory isn't entirely dumb!

Question: How do we know the world is round and not flat?
Answer: If you're in the northern hemisphere, and you point your camera at the northern night sky with a long exposure, you can capture stars "spinning" around the north pole. Here's a good example:

_URL_0_

In the southern hemisphere, you can see the same phenomenon pointing your camera south. The only way this makes sense is if the world is a ball.

Question: why do so many lottery winners go broke within a year?
Answer: A few years ago /u/blakeclass wrote a [response to a thread](_URL_0_) that stared off:

 >  Congratulations! You just won millions of dollars in the lottery! That's great.

 > Now you're fucked.

 > No really.

 > You are.

 > You're fucked.

Ignoring the non-monetary things that can happen, the example of Jack Whittaker is quite an illustrative one. He won $315 million ($114 mil after choosing the lump sum + paying tax), but even before then he had a net worth of $15mil and was the owner of a successful contracting firm. Surely someone whose net worth is *that much* knows how to budget, right?

Sure. So long as you ignore all the pleading - I've got MS, my daughter's got cancer, I'm unemployed and just need a jumpstart with money. Not just in letters, but in person. Whittaker abandoned going to his usual breakfast place because he would always be accosted. Then they showed up at his door, and he had to hire security personel.

And that was just the start. Imagine having your face, name, and location posted in the news. Anyone with a bit of sleuthing could find your home and start tracking or stalking you. Extended family (some of whom you've not heard of in years, if not *decades*) could come out of the woodwork wanting to share in your fortune. People accosting close family members because they're easier to get to than you, or breaking into your house to steal goods or cash.

Anyone who is aware of your fortune is almost inevitably going to want money. And either you hire a go-between to deal with it (money), you have a stone cold heart and can say no a hundred times a day, or you give to those you believe are 'needy' and watch more people come and ask while your fortune is whittled away.

Then, of course, you've got the people who have no idea how to manage money. Two, three, five million? More than they could ever hoped to imagine. They can buy a fancy house, a nice car, maybe a luxury yaht...but where's all the money to *maintain* that going to come from? A luxury holiday in a five-star hotel with first class flight tickets sounds great, but four years later you're back to your old habit of camping because all the money is *gone*.

If you're also one of the demographic that doesn't earn that much money, you might not have any idea that there are people whose *entire job* is managing rich peoples' money. So they make spur of the moment financial decisions that inevitably lead to a short-term extravagant lifestyle, followed by bankrupcy.

Question: How come sometimes I'm able to sit down and work for hours on end, and other times I can barely look at work at all?
Answer: It's due to levels of neurotransmitters in your brain changing due to large variety of physiological, environmental, and emotional factors. There are likely a lot of neurotransmitters in play that have a huge impact on motivation, but currently the most well-known is one called "Dopamine". 

People who have disorders involving dopamine regulation dysfunction (such as Parkinson's, some forms of Depression, MS, etc) have severe disruption in motivation. The lower the dopamine production/uptake, the lower the motivation. They lack what would be considered a normal motivation drive, and typically see improvements in this motivation when undergoing pharmaceutical therapy to increase levels of dopamine.

So what can you do to influence dopamine? Well, the field is still very young and is full of unknowns, but it seems that one way to increase dopamine in healthy individuals is to have them partake in activities they **enjoy**. Exercise also has an effect on dopamine levels and as a result may increase levels of motivation. 

So if you're feeling unmotivated, perhaps it'd be wise to spend some time among friends or go for a quick jog/walk/bike ride before returning to your work. It could have a very positive impact.

Question: This quote from xkcd: "There will come a day when I'm either an ancestor to all living humans or to none of them"
Answer: Think, ^(1)/*_2_* of you came from your mom, ^(1)/*_4_* of you from your gramma, etc. until ^(1)/*_32768_* of you came from someone from centuries ago.

Now, that ^(1)/*_2_* of you that's your mom is also in all your siblings, and that ^(1)/*_4_* of you that came from your gramma is in all your siblings *and* cousins, etc... See how it keeps increasing?

Chances are, that same ^(1)/*_32768_* of you that came from some long-ago ancestor of yours, is also in *a lot* of other people too. Probably most people, if not all people living today.

Remember, we each have a *lot* of ancestors, not just our mom or gramma or great-grammy. It's a line that goes backwards. So, we all have *a lot* of ancestors *in common*. Those are called our (drumroll please) "common ancestors".

Of these common ancestors, one of them was alive the most recently. We call them the "most recent common ancestor". That's the guy who we're all related to most recently. Kind of like ~~Adam~~ Noah.

Now, if you were that one person, then you'd be *everyone's* ancestor. However if your line dies out (or you never do it with someone) then you're nobody's ancestor after a long enough time.

Question: How can people like George Soros "bet" on a crash? What mechanisms would allow them to make a profit on a bet like that?
Answer: One can make money on a failing business by 'shorting' stocks, for example. 

Here's an example using a single company: 
I, for whatever reason, suspect that the value of coke's stocks will drop. At the moment it's at $20 per share. 

I 'borrow' 5 shares from my stock-broker, and sell them on the stock market. I now owe my stock broker 5 shares of coke (plus fees) and I have $100 cash. 

The next day, as predicted, the price of coke falls - to $10 a share. I go back to the stock market and buy 5 shares of coke (for $50) and return them to my stock broker. I now have $50 profit (minus charges) and owe no one any stock. Thus i have profited $50 while the value of stocks fell. 

This is called 'short selling' stocks - selling 'borrowed' stocks, and returning them later on, when the price of buying them elsewhere is less. 

The alternative approach is 'long selling' where you buy a stock when it's cheap, and sell it when it's more expensive. 

Now consider things like mutual funds and hedge funds. These are basically large collections of various stocks managed by a professional stock trader. People can buy shares in a hedge fund, just like they can a company. By their very nature, hedge funds and their kin try to 'capture' the market - to own shares in a broad crosssction of businesses which represent the strenght of the economy. 

If one were to short-sell shares in a mutual fund, during an economic recession, then they would profit from betting that the economy as a whole will turn bad in the near future.  

I hope that made sense...

Question: I'm having a hard time understanding a single line of a legal document I have, I'll buy gold to whoever gives me a thorough explanation
Answer: It's the following month.  The quarter closes out March 31 at close of business, and payment must be postmarked or in the inbox by the last business day in April.

Same deal for July, October, and January.

Question: In the 1985 movie "Clue," what is Mrs. Peacock's secret for which she is being blackmailed?
Answer: She's accepting bribes to influence her senator husband's votes.

Question: What does Neosporin do to my cut?
Answer: Neosporin works as an antibiotic and also claims that it speeds the healing process. A couple studies in the past have shown that Neosporin does not have any increased efficacy in wound healing than a basic petroleum jelly. So pretty much it just protects the wound from any outside bacteria by placing a gel 'shield' over the cut/scrape.

Question: Why are many manual laborers who spend 8 hours or more a day lifting, pushing, and pulling heavy objects not in incredible shape from doing so after many months or years?
Answer: I'd say diet is the biggest factor here.  A lot of those labourers/construction workers are strong as fuck but eat like shit. They'd look a lot more jacked with a healthier diet.

Question: Why does VLC for iOS have to remove codecs like AC-3, but the desktop version doesn't have to?
Answer: Because  of software patents. They can host the desktop version somewhere that doesn't recognise them (eg, Europe), whereas due to the closed nature of the iOS ecosystem, they can't do that for that release.

Question: Is vacuum cold?
Answer: A vacuum cleaner sucks up air. In doing so, it lowers the pressure or, in other words, makes air less dense. Less dense air feels cold because it is colder.

The opposite of this effect is a bicycle pump, which compresses air. Pump a bicycle pump enough times and it gets hot, because it it compressing air, so making it more dense, so making it feel hotter.

Both effects are due to how molecules behave, depending on whether they're being pushed together or pulled apart. Vacuum pulls them apart and makes them colder; pump pushes them together and makes them hotter.

Question: Why does unplugging plugging back in a router solve most problems?
Answer: 1. As you use a router (or any digital device, really) errors slowly accumulate. Turning it "off and on again" clears the temporary memory and the errors, allowing it to function faster.

2. You will probably have background programs which are using internet, and they will not always reconnect immediately when the router is restarted. This will free up bandwidth.

3. Some ISPs slow down your connection if you do certain things, such as torrenting or using proxies. Resetting your connection changes some information about your network, such as IPv4 addresses, preventing some of the methods they use from slowing the connection.

Question: Why do we feel embarrassed when we're the only one in a group of people who laughs at something?
Answer: I suppose for the same reason doing anything out of the ordinary is naturally embarrassing, even if it's being recognized for a great honor.

Though it shouldn't be because that implies you made a connection that nobody else made.

Question: - What is the difference between racism and anti-semitism?
Answer: Anti-Semitism is seen as a form of racism.

Racism is being prejudiced towards someone because of their race, or against a whole race in general. Ie. not letting a kid play on the baseball team because he's black.

Anti-Semitism is being prejudiced towards someone because they are Jewish, or being against Jews in general. Ie. Not letting someone play on the baseball team because they are Jewish.

Question: How do those NES light guns (Duck Hunt) work?
Answer: The gun has a light sensor in it. When you squeeze the trigger, the TV screen turns black and white boxes appear where the ducks were for one frame (about .04 seconds). It's so fast that we don't really notice that the screen flickered. The gun with the light sensor in it is just looking for a flash of white that lasts about .04 seconds as well. If the gun is aimed at the duck then the white square that flashes will provide enough light to set off the light sensor in the gun and register it as a hit.

To be a little more specific, the screen actually turns black for two frames, once for each duck, and puts only one white box on the screen at a time. This allows the system to determine whether you hit the first duck or the second.

Question: Why do you see the red/green/blue lines when you move your eyes back and forth while looking at a video from a projector?
Answer: Those different color lines make the picture. When you look without moving your head, the lines blend together to make all the different colors. These lines are projected one after another. The eyes have this thing called "persistence of vision." That is, if they see a bit of light, the eyes seem to keep seeing it for a short time; that's how the eye blends the projected colors together. 

A projected picture changes the image more rapidly than the eye can follow the individual changes, so you don't see individual bits of image, but a moving image.

If you look at an image made up of individual bursts of color, that depends on you just looking at it, and instead move your head or eyes side to side, then your eyes don't see the different lines on top of one another, blending together, but next or near to one another... suddenly you see the parts that make up the image.

Question: Are we lighter during the night due to centripetal force from orbit?
Answer: It would be the opposite if there is any fluctuations as at night the gravitational pull of the sun is also pulling you toward the earth while during the day the sun would be pulling you away from the earth ever so slightly. 

There is some fluctuation but it is less than 1%.

Question: Why do cast iron skillets make food taste better?
Answer: IMHO it has nothing to do with the oil in the pan.  

I have my grandmother's skillet [probably 50+ years old.]  I clean it with sea salt.

I think it has to do with heat dispersal; that the iron transmits the heat more evenly than other materials.  The food cooks evenly.

Question: How does increasing the interest rate to 17% in Russia and selling of their foreign-exchange help the Russian Ruble exchange rate ?
Answer: Selling their Euros, etc. to buy rubles means that rubles will become scarcer and the price should rise.

Raising the interest rate means that instead of cashing in and taking your money to Sweden, you will invest in mother Russia to take advantage of the higher interest. 

The first one apparently is working better than the latter attempt at shoring up the currency.

Question: What are spectator drags
Answer: Bring your car to a track and race against some other schmuck who brought their car to the track.

Interestingly, while the name implies that they are drag races, they're typically on closed tracks rather than in straight lines.

Question: How does communism work in places like China and North Korea?
Answer: These places are not communist.  None of the places that had a communist party in charge actually were communist in anyway.  They also shifted the goal posts and then decided that they were socialist, even though they doing that required a total revision of Marx's ideas regarding socialism/communism/revolution.  All of these places are capitalist.  Some have more of the industry under the control of the state, some has less.  Communism and/or marxism serve only as ideological justifcations for these regimes, much in the same fashion as other ideologies serve other capitalist regimes.

Source:  I'm a marxist.

Question: Why water level in ice water lowers when the ice melts
Answer: If you look at the level of liquid water in a glass it actually won't move much at all.  You can try it with a glass water with a few ice cubes in it and a marker.

The fact that the liquid water level doesn't go up or down seems strange.  After all, before the ice melts there is solid ice sticking out the top.  When that solid ice isn't sticking up you might think that the liquid level had to go up.  To understand why it doesn't you need to understand how ice floats.

Ice floats because for the same amount of stuff (same amount of water particles, same amount mass, same amount of weight) ice takes up more space than liquid water.  This is very unusual since most types of stuff take up more space as liquids than they do as solids.  

When you put a cube of ice into liquid water it sinks part way.  It sinks just the right amount so that the water it is pushing out of the way has the same weight as the entire cube.  Because the ice cube has takes up more space for the same amount of weight it doesn't sink all the way so some sticks out the top. A 5 gram ice cube pushes 5 gams of water out of the way.  

When the ice cube melts it doesn't change how much stuff there is. There are still the same number of water particles/ same mass and weight.  It is just now in liquid form.  That liquid filled up the space that the ice cube left behind, the space that the ice cube took up by pushing liquid water out of the way.  Since it as liquid water it now takes up less space than as a cube it no longer sticks out the top.  


TL;DR: If you drop a 5 gram ice cube into  liquid water it pushes 5 grams of liquid water out of the way raising the water level.  As the 5 grams of ice turn to 5 grams of liquid it fills the space made by pushing 5 grams of water out of the way.  Of course 5 grams of water fit perfectly into the space made by pushing 5 grams of water out of the way and the water level doesn't need to change.

Question: What would happen if your home country started a conflict with a country you're visiting or living in?
Answer: You can probably expect some hostility, perhaps outright violence. Never know, you could be taken captive as an enemy of whatever country you're in.

Question: Why do body parts fall asleep and why does it hurt?
Answer: When you pinch off the blood stream to a certain body part. The cells need oxygen and other stuff all the time. If you disconnect the blood flow for too long, it feels numb.

Question: Why can't we just use MAC addreses instead of the IP addreses?
Answer: A MAC address is unique identifier, but it doesn't tell you anything about *where* a device is. IP addresses are structured, routers can infer from the address which way it needs to send the message to get it towards its destination, without needing a giant database of individual addresses.

Think of it like something sent in the mail. The name identifies who the recipient is, but it doesn't help the sorting office get the mail to where it needs to go. They don't know that person, but they do know where their city is, so they send it there. And when it gets to that city, their sorting office knows where the street is.

Question: How is it possible that you can order something on ebay for $3 without shipping payments?
Answer: Usually it's coming from China. The Chinese government subsidizes parcels moving out of the country if its for the purpose if ecommerce, which makes international postal rates for Chinese sellers ridiculously low.

Question: Radiation affecting us
Answer: Getting hit with radiation is like having lots of tiny bullets shot into you.  They pummel the molecules in your cells, sometimes breaking them into pieces.  Now, some molecules in your cells can be repaired or replaced.  And if a cell is too damaged, it's programmed to just commit suicide before it can go rogue.  However, sometimes, if DNA is damaged by radiation in just the right places, the cell won't commit suicide, and it will instead go cancerous and replicate endlessly.

Question: Why can't ISPs (that can increase) just increase their internet speeds? Wouldn't it earn them money in the long-run?
Answer: Because they don't need to care about their customer's satisfaction when they have monopolies.

Question: Why do money-wiring services exist when you can just email money for free?
Answer: email doesn't happen out of thin air. you have to have a device.

if you're poor you are unlikely to have a device.

much of the money-wiring market is poor people transferring their wages home (often a foreign country.)

when home *is* a foreign country there are regulations around how cash can be transferred (and I doubt that emailing money is allowed without some compliance infrastructure on the platform.)

Question: What exactly is globalization and what does unequal globalism stand for?
Answer: Globalization is the increasing tendency to move business from one country to some other country where it's cheaper to do then bring the products back to the first country. This improves corporate profits when done right - and may make some products and services viable when they were not cost-efficient before.

Unequal globalization is when some country or segment of the workforce is a net-loser in that transaction. 

A company moving a factory from America or China is going to make more money, but all the ex-workers are screwed and maybe the entire town. Multiplied by decades and thousands of factories it results in wide-spread poverty among segments of society that were doing OK before.

Similarly an entire country might not benefit if they can't do much/anything cheaper than some other country. Africa has been on the whole a net-loser due to globalization because the political instability and corruption makes it unattractive to build factories there as opposed to China and now Vietnam.

Question: Why does the human eye have to focus on certain things at once and blur out the surroudings?
Answer: The cells in your eye that are capable of clear vision are concentrated in a circle about one *millimeter* across. Most of your eye just can't see things sharply.

Question: If the US is technically on the Metric system, why are we not teaching it exclusively in schools?
Answer: Because a lot of things in the US are based on the Imperial system and won't be changing anytime soon. Being familiar with the Imperial system is a necessary skill in a lot of blue collar, manufacturing/industrial jobs where the expensive heavy machinery was designed with Imperial units. Of course, a 1" nail could just be renamed a 25.4mm nail, but then we would have changed units and we'd still be off from the rest of the world which is using, lets say, a 25mm nail

Question: How come upon walking into a room with a bad smell, at first it smells really bad, but after a few minutes, you can’t smell it anymore?
Answer: Our brains are hard wired to really only pay attention to new information.  We are bombarded with a ton of stimulus at any given moment, but most of it isn't all that useful.  For example, you probably didn't feel the chair you were sitting on or the shirt you were wearing until I mentioned it just now, right?  That is because the brain filtered that information out as "not useful".

The reason for this is that information is really only useful insofar as it helps us make decisions about our actions.  New information may tell us about potential threats or food sources, but older information that hasn't changed doesn't really do that - if we assessed that a particular stimulus isn't a threat or food, then it isn't helpful to keep being reminded of that.

Smell works the same way.  The new smell might be important when you first smell it - maybe the room is dangerous or there is something to eat inside.  After a while, though, we've already processed that information and determined that there isn't a threat/is no food, so there isn't value in continuing to notice the smell.

Question: Why in the U.S. are we not told the upfront cost of medical care so that we can shop around like we can when making any other purchase.
Answer: In a word: greed. The U.S. Health care system is a for-profit business.

One tactic for maximizing profits is to obscure the true costs so as to stifle competition.

Another tactic is to use fear to make a sale. What's more important than your health?

To be fair, though, it's becoming more and more common, especially with specialists, to get estimates for procedures to be performed. "Shopping around" is accomplished through second opinions in these cases.

Question: why do governments hire Private Military Contractors
Answer: They are already ex-military most of the time plus Govt doesn't get the "official responsibility" for any mishaps. Google Raymond Davis Pakistan for an example. There must be hundreds other as well but seemed to illustrate how well entrenched these practices are

Question: How do these giant EVE battles I always see on the front page work?
Answer: Arranged battles do happen. Some times they are sponsored events and sometimes its territory war. If a corp is holding a system and another corp wants to take it battles like this can ensue. Resource wars and rare asteroid belts see this on a smaller scale all the time.

Question: What is that sound that start every concert and always give me chills
Answer: That's the band/orchestra tuning up. [ Typically the concertmaster signals an oboe to play an A and that's what's used as the baseline for people to tune.](_URL_0_)

Question: Why does Steam have to update constantly?
Answer: There is a rule in the software development world: software in use will need to be modified.

Steam is big and performs a lot of functions both for us gamers and for the vendors and many of this functions involve critical assets like money or personal informations and it performs them over the Internet which is notoriously unsafe. You have to keep up with a lot of things: fixing bugs, updating security mechanisms and, sometimes, adding new features (which might introduce new bugs and vulnerabilities to fix). This means updates, updates and more updates.

Question: Why 8 fl. oz. of water, frozen does not weigh equal 8 fl. oz. of liquid water (minus weigh of container)
Answer: If you take 8 fluid ounces of water and weigh it, it should be 0.52 pounds.

If you freeze that 8 fluid ounces of water and weigh it again, it should be 0.52 pounds.

The *volume* will change because at normal pressure, because water expands when it freezes.

"ounces" are sometimes weight, and sometimes volume. That may explain any difference you note.  
A volume of 8 oz of ice will weigh less than a volume of 8 oz of water.

Question: why does Argentina have a lot of Nazi artifacts? What's the relationship between the two countries
Answer: Argentina was one of the destinations for Nazis being smuggled out of Europe in the closing days and aftermath of World War II. Nicknamed [ratlines](_URL_0_) and identified collectively as [Operation ODESSA](_URL_1_) by the Allies, many different organizations and outfits existed to help Germans who should have been tried for war crimes escape justice, and many ended up being able to set up shop in South America instead, living under false names among the German descended minority populations there. 

Argentina was a popular destination because it had a sizable and well established German minority (which actually predated the creation of a unified "Germany"), and also because the Peron government wasn't philosophically opposed to the then-collapsed fascist governments of Nazi Germany and Vichy France, and saw the chance to recruit foreign talent (including scientists and technology experts, akin to the American Operation Paperclip) by either turning a blind eye to their crimes or in some cases actively aiding and abetting their escape from Europe. The former meant that Germans (both legit expats and ratline smuggled criminals) had a community they could integrate into, and the latter made it easier to hide from the international community by giving them a legal buffer.

Question: Under the new rules recently passed, what information can be sold and who exactly may purchase it. Is it a giant free for all like people are making it out to be?
Answer: Basically, nothing has changed.  The bill passed shot down a not yet enacted rule that was going to require ISPs to get your consent before being able to sell metrics information- basically, anything that google or facebook already sells to advertisers, other ISPs already could sell, and will continue to be able to sell, to advertisers so that advertising can be targeted towards you.

If you use a VPN or ad blockers, you're probably not going to see much of an effect from this

Question: When the US passes a law about something like Net Neutrality or commercialization of space how does that become accepted international law?
Answer: Well, first, neither of the two examples you've specified are laws. 

Net Neutrality is a regulatory opinion, applying a section of the Communications Act of 1934 to Internet service. The US was late to the net neutrality game. The European Union passed a net neutrality law in the spring of 2014, after several EU member states did the same.

The "commercialization of space" happened because NASA had retired the space shuttle, but didn't want to be wholly dependent on the Russians for access to the International Space Station, so NASA put out a bid. To my knowledge, Congress made no special authorization to allow these projects to be private instead of run by NASA itself.

So I don't really have an answer to your question, because the question doesn't make a lot of sense.

Question: Why do we have two of some organs (e.g. lungs, kidneys, etc.) but not of others (e.g. liver, pancreas, etc.)?
Answer: Surface area. Our body is constantly filtering via the kidneys and exchanging gas via the lungs. Having twice the amount of alveoli and twice the amount of nephrons helps our body keep up with the amount of absorption, secretion, and exchange necessary to maintain homeostasis. You can technically live without one kidney and one lung, but it puts stress on that organ and requires you to make lifestyle changes to accommodate.

Question: How come there are fireplaces in the woods? Why not tear them down when tearing the house down?
Answer: The fireplace is immune to both rot and fire. So if either of those destroyed the rest of the house the fireplace will still be there.

Question: - Why is it so hard to artificially replenish the ozone layer?
Answer: Volume, the amount of Ozone we'd have to create is extremely high and would have to placed in high atmosphere.

Question: Why exactly is it considered racist for white people to be proud of their heritage, but not any other race?
Answer: The basic idea is that 'white pride' has a history of including violent aggression toward POC, like the KKK lynchings, and it's part of a Western system of institutionalized racism against POC. When a Black person is participating in a 'black pride' thing like Black Lives Matter, they are trying to fight back against the system that produced slavery and race inequality, and the movement that they are part of does not endorse violence against white people. A bunch of people disagree with all of that, but that's what a BLM activist would tell you. 

Now, there is a way for a white person to be proud of their heritage without it being considered racist – focus on culture, not race. If you're Scottish, go to a Scottish festival; if you're French, learn French cooking, and so on and so forth. That's totally fine, because it's about celebrating who you are without putting down anyone else. 

Another way to think about it: if the average person of another race or culture would be able to participate in an event or movement, it's probably okay. I'm not Chinese, but I'm going to go to a Chinese New Year event in my town because it's open to everyone and it's about celebrating culture. My Filipina friend's not Scottish, but she went to the Scottish festival with a friend of ours who is, because it sounded fun to both of them. I've marched in anti-racism protests organized by Black activist groups even though I'm white, because I care about getting rid of institutional racism. 

But would POC feel comfortable at a white pride event, with all the racist history that carries? Not many would.

Question: How come indigenous people have historically been affected by invaders diseases but the invaders weren't affected by some random disease that the natives had?
Answer: It's not always one way. Syphilis was one example of a new world disease that was definitely problematic for Europeans.  
But often times the larger populations of more developed nations meant that there were larger infection pools, over time only the most infectious of diseases would be able to propagate.   
Also many of the Europeans at the time lived in close proximity to livestock, meaning they learned to live with more diseases that could jump species.

Question: ...If aliens put a satellite into earth orbit to observe us, would we even notice with all the other satellites up there?
Answer: Yes. Astronomers carefully track all sattelites - as do some world governments. Even space junk is tracked. 

Astronomers need to know where sattelites and debris are so it does not interfere with looking at stars. 

Governments want to know where spy sattelites are and who is looking at what. 

NASA and other space agency's track space junk and sattelites so stuff they launch into space does not collide with it. 


So, things orbiting our planet are carefully examined.

Question: What would have happened in China if you got pregnant with a second child?
Answer: You would pay a one time fine at the birth of your child (or when it was discovered) and you would pay extra taxes.

Question: What's the point of the "objection" part of a wedding?
Answer: It doesn't have a point anymore. Which is why lots of people are choosing to leave it out.

Nowadays, when you want to get married, you need to arrange the legal stuff beforehand - proof that you are legally able to marry this man or woman. Which generally comes down to showing that you are not blood related / that you are not already married. 

In ye olden days, you didn't have to show so many records before trying to getting hitched and cross checking everything was a lot harder without computers. The objection part was so anyone who would know of a valid legal reason why these two people could not be wed could speak up.

Question: The whole world has been pumping trillions of dollars into Africa as charity since decades now. Why are malnutrition, poverty, etc. still an issue there?
Answer: It's a political problem.  Large parts of sub-Saharan Africa are basically kleptocracies ruled by thieving dictators who only seek to enrich themselves and build prestige.

Question: The Limits of the Filibuster
Answer: > Are there any protocols in place to forcibly end a filibuster? Does anyone or any majority have the authority to overrule a filibuster? 

Yes, the process is called cloture (meaning the formal end of debate), in the US senate it requires a supermajority of 60 (of 100) votes.  In practice, the metagame of the senate has shifted to both sides knowing (or having a high confidence in their ability to predict) whether a filibuster actually has 60 votes for cloture and simply not bringing up business that would have the potential to be filibustered.  

Each legislature would have it's own rules for cloture and whatever rule voting majority is required.

Question: If I just drew up some random contract on a piece of paper torn from a notebook and it was signed by someone else would its contents be binding?
Answer: If it meets the requirements of a contract, sure:

1. All parties in the contract must be giving something. You can't just write "You will give me $100" and think it's a binding contract if I sign it. If you're not agreeing to do something for that $100, it isn't a contract.

2. The offers and acceptance must be clear and unambiguous.

3. It must not violate any laws.

4. Both parties must understand what it is they are agreeing to, and be of legal age to sign a contract.

5. There must be agreement among the parties as to the contents of the contract.

If it meets these requirements, it's a contract.

Question: meta-analysis
Answer: Let's say that I want to work out whether 5 year olds like french fries. Lots of people have already done studies looking at how much kids like french fries but in all sorts of different ways. Also, any scientific study could be wrong. If some say that kids *do* like fries and others say they *don't*, how do I know which to believe? Instead of doing a new study and adding to the pile I could try and combine all of the studies that have already been done and seeing what I can find. How you actually do that is fairly complicated but that's the basic rationale.

Question: Why is it when a US service member dies on active duty the family receives at most $400k, but when young man is murdered by police and the family receives $5mil.
Answer: Well, a service member expected to put their life on the line but a civilian doesn't expect to die at the hands of the people who should be protecting them.

Question: Why does odd meter in music (e.g., time signatures in 9/8, 7/4, etc.) sound and feel so unnatural?
Answer: Music is much more acquired than you think. What sounds 'good' or 'normal' to you is the scales and the meters that you grew up listening to. The reason odd meter sounds weird to western ears is because...we don't hear it that often. 3/4 is an odd meter that we hear a lot so it sounds completely normal.

You'll find odd meters with more frequency in other cultures. 7/8 (septuple meter) is really common in Balkan countries. 5/8 (quintuple meter) is found all over the place: ancient greece, spain, aboriginal australians, native american populations, korean court music, hindustani songs, etc.

Question: / Why can't/don't we make toilets that don't clog?
Answer: We absolutely can, but there are a couple limits that we have to work within.  First is the diameter of the outflow pipe beneath the toilet.  This usually isn't much of an issue, because the toilet drain pipe is generally no less than 3 inches.

The other limitation is the amount of water and pressure we're using to flush.  In a home, there's only about 1.6 gallons of water to flush with (older toilets can have considerably more), and the pressure is defined by the amount of water in the tank and gravity.

In a commercial toilet without a tank, the pressure is much greater and the amount of water can be greater as well, which is why you rarely get a stopped up commercial toilet.

Question: How do archaeologists know what noses look like?
Answer: The bone parts around the nose provide indicators of nose shape that they can use to create reasonable deductions of noses.

Question: Conservatism, Socialism and Liberalism
Answer: This is probably beyond the scope of ELI5, and is going to have a lot of loaded answers. There are as many definitions as people who care enough to have them.

My personal opinion: Conservatives tend to believe that tradition and the past are very valuable and deserving of respect. Socialists believe that people should work for a common good, without a desire for personal gain. Liberals tend to believe that change is the way to the future, and that people's attitudes towards each other should be marked by generosity, which should be enforced by a government.

I think most people, at least, can agree on this: whatever your alignment, most people honestly believe that their system is the best for the world; very, very few people are actually evil or malicious in their ideology.

Question: Why do my eyes water up when I pull out a nose hair?
Answer: Tears are a reaction to irritation, an attempt by your body to flush foreign particles out of your eyes. The pain of pulling out a nose hair is so close to eye pain, I imagine it causes the same reaction. Just speculation.

Question: How come there can only be two sith but loads of Jedi
Answer: * Expanded universe history. The Sith fought a massive war with themselves long ago and the last Sith standing decreed the current system to keep them from destroying themselves again.
* Its a lie. Palpitate clearly keeps multiple force capable individuals under him through the series and expanded universe books and hides them from each other. He may not name them apprentices but the relationship is the same.

Question: how do wireless connections really work?
Answer: In short, in the late 1800's James Maxwell, amazingly without having to observe anything and with pure mathematics showed the existence of electromagnetic waves otherwise known as radio waves. Shortly after, Heinrich Hertz proved him correct with real life observations.

Question: Why is Tai Lopez considered a scum bag for his "knowledge" videos?
Answer: The popular YouTube channel H3H3 made [this video](_URL_0_) describing it really well. Essentially, his "motivational" videos are clearly disingenuous and fake. This, tacked on to his annoying voice and arrogant attitude, makes him pretty fuckin' scummy

Question: How do civil engineers calculate how much weight a bridge can hold?
Answer: There's a class in college called "statics" and "dynamics".  Where you learn about how much weight various materials can support and what happens if the weight is applied at an angle and how you can add support with cables and such.

Question: What makes wholesome memes as funny, despite them being very boring at face value?
Answer: A big factor of comedy is the unexpected. When you get so used to edgy jokes the opposite will throw you off and are more likely to find it funny.

Question: Why do we have different punishments for murder and attempted murder?
Answer: Because we decided that actually ending someone's life is worse than not ending their life.

You could rephrase the question as "Why do we have different punishments for assault and attempted murder? Why do we punish the criminal because their victim had a weak skull and it nearly gave out totally?"

Question: Is countries printing more money a good sign or a bad one? Why?
Answer: Along with things like adjusting interest rates and taxes, printing more or less money is one of the things a government can do to steer their country's economy. So your question is a bit like "Is a car driver applying the brakes a good sign or a bad one?". Depends on the situation. It's something you normally do a bit from time to time in the course of keeping things under control. But if you see someone suddenly slam the brakes on, that's a bad sign. Same thing if a country suddenly starts printing enormous amounts money.

Question: If Gandalf knew Bilbo has the ring, why did he let him keep it?
Answer: He didn't know it was The One Ring - it was thought to be destroyed. In The Hobbit the ring was nothing special (other than the invisibility), and in the Lord of the Rings books it took Gandalf 17 years from Bilbo's farewell party to discover that it was in fact Sauron's ring.

Question: Why newlyweds should get blood tests
Answer: I'm sure someone can explain this better than I can, but its basically to see if they can have children and what their children's immunities and what not would closely correlate too.

Again... I'm sure someone can explain this better than I, but it has more to do with the children they might have than an aids test, although those don't hurt to do either.

Question: What happens when we swallow our own blood?
Answer: You will expel it like anything else you eat. But the average human can only consume a little over a pint of blood before you get sick. Don't puke you will rip your stiches lol

Question: If heat sanitises, why can getting a burn cause an infection?
Answer: Burning leads to an open wound. Your skin protects you from nasty things entering through your flesh, so if it's burned off it can no longer protect you.

Question: why do we bruise?
Answer: A bruise is caused by tiny blood vessels called capillaries breaking and allowing blood to leak into the surrounding tissue. This happens because we aren't invincible.

Question: How does encryption work?
Answer: Most simple explanation:

* I put a key (key A) in a box, and lock this box with my padlock using my other key (key B).
* I send this locked box to you. The "man in the middle" is unable to see this Key A. I never send Key B, so that key also stays secret.
* You put a second padlock on the box, using your key (key C). This key also stays on your side, so it's secret as well.
* You send the box with the 2 padlocks back. Again, the "man in the middle" is unable to see Key A, nor Key C.
* I remove my padlock using my Key B.
* I send the box back to you, it's still locked with your padlock.
* You open the box using Key C, and voila: You now have Key A.

Question: Why do different regions have different tasting water?
Answer: Different mineral content in the source water will change the taste.

What do you mean by mess up science experiments though? Any serious science experiments will use distilled water to remove the minerals, while most high school or lower science experiments shouldn’t be too dependent on mineral content/care about contamination.

Question: How do I create shirts based on existing properties without getting in trouble for copyright infringement?
Answer: You either don't do it, or change the source enough that you can claim it's a parody. Selling merchandise using copyrighted characters you do not own is an incredibly clear violation, and there isn't a court in the country that would rule in your favor.

Question: Why does water bother our eyes so much?
Answer: This is dependent on the source obviously, but most water is not "clean", meaning it has particles of other things in it. Water in outdoor environments can have contaminants from farm runoff, dirt, algae, etc. Pool water can have chlorine, bromine, and salts that can cause irritation, and virtually all water, from taps, pools, bottles, the Atlantic ocean, you name it, has microbial life in it. The water isn't what usually bothers your eyes, it's all the microscopic bits of gunk in it that cause irritation by drying out the mucus membranes, stripping them, blocking the tear ducts, etc.

Question: Why is it that Asians who come to America not knowing English do better, within a few years , than most Americans who lived here their whole life?
Answer: because the Asian immigrants that come here, at least the highly visible ones to mainstream american society, tend to be wealthy, highly educated, and highly motivated. If you compare them to the broad swathe of the American populace, then yeah, they seem to be doing better. 

If you compare them to American born people with similar access to education and wealth, the native born Americans likely do better and the gap is certainly smaller.

Question: Why do boobs from the 60's/70's look so much different than present day boobs?
Answer: As someone who has seen thirty year of boobs, the boobs themselves don't change. It is the boobs you see that do. I am assuming you are talking about the boobs you see in movies and on websites. Back in the 60's and 70's what a filmmaker saw as a perfect set of boobs was different than what you would see as a perfect set of boobs. Body doubles with cosmetic surgery are used now where natural tits would be used then.

Question: Why do mosquitoes prefer one person's blood over another?
Answer: Mosquitos prefer:

* [Type O Blood](_URL_3_). On the same note, most people secrete chemical signals through their skin that indicates blood type, but about 15% do not, so naturally mosquitos prefer the 85%.

* [People who exhale high levels of Carbon Dioxide](_URL_0_). Mosquitos use an organ called a maxillary palp to help detect targets,  &  it works by detecting Carbon Dioxide in the air. More Carbon Dioxide means mosquitos can detect you better.

* Sweaty people. Mosquitos also detect targets by smelling lactic acid, uric acid, ammonia  &  other chemicals in your sweat, so if you're sweaty, that'll  help them find you.

* Hot people. They also detect body heat.

* [Pregnant Women](_URL_4_). Due to an increase of about 20% in Carbon Dioxide exhalation  &  an increase in body temperature, mosquitos like pregnant women.

* [Certain bacteria found on your skin](_URL_1_).

* Dark or red clothes. Mosquitos can see these colours better.

* [Beer](_URL_2_). One study has found that mosquitos prefer people who are drinking alcohol. It's possible this is due to increased body temperature or ethanol in your sweat, but we don't have an exact answer for this one yet!

Question: What is the appeal of social networking services such as Snapchat or Instagram?
Answer: Snapchat and Instagram both allow text to be added as captions. For the sake of conversations, they have a similar appeal that a Skype video call has over a normal one - seeing the person's face. 

Instagram is more like a Facebook newsfeed than a conversation tool. It's more to show off meals eaten, clothes bought and perhaps some visual experiences. Also, my generation seems to be allergic to reading anything more than a short paragraph.

Question: Why do fake phone numbers start with 555?
Answer: Because no real phone number start with that prefix. This means shows can use a number without accidentally giving out a real person's number - 8675309.

Question: How does it make sense that WhatsApp sold for $16b while Beats only went for $3.2b?
Answer: BOTH acquisitions are ridiculously, excessively high. It's unlikely beats is even worth more than a $1.5B or so. Whatsapp, is probably worth maybe a couple billion, haha, maybe, probably not.--- Which doesn't answer your question. 

 So why did they go this high? Because they companies that bought them are throwing money around like crazy in a tech acquisition war.  Yup, a war.  The ones with money are trying to snatch up everyone else that could be a money maker, and willing to pay absurd amounts of money, just so no one else can have them and they will not compete with them. It's a war, they are willing to pay whatever it takes to win, even if its insane.  And they can afford it.

For perspective. Star Wars, and everything Lucas Arts was valued at $4B, and that was considered an immense steal at that price.  They basically gave it away.  Sony, the massive industrial tech giant congolmorate beast of Japanese industry is valued around  $18B.  Think about that. Sony, an massive worldwide company with products used on every part of the earth costs less than whatsapp. 

In other words, fuck that shit.

Question: The Legitimate reasons for using off shore banking.
Answer: Let's pretend you are Apple, you have a lot of research and development offices in the US, a bunch of retail locations, maybe a few warehouses and repair centers. Company HQ all in the US.

A lot of your main bank accounts are here in the US. However you have a large accounting office in Ireland because of their tax laws, so you need an account in Europe to pay the Irish employees in Euros. 

Then you have a lot of contracts with various factories in China to build parts, so you need to have accounts in China to pay people with the Yuan. 

If you didn't have these various offshore accounts, you would have to pay an exchange fee every time you wrote a check, and worse, if the exchange rate was bad, the check would be for more money than you originally thought.

Question: I see ads for the drug Humira on TV all the time, and it seems like every time I see a commercial for it, the drug is being advertised to treat a different disease whether it be depression, RA, plaque psoriasis, Crohn's Disease, etc.. How can one drug treat so many ailments?
Answer: Humira is a drug that reduces inflammation.  Because Humira treats a symptom, rather than the root cause of a disease, it's useful in treating a wide range of diseases that share that symptom.

I don't think Humira is advertised as a treatment for depression, all I found online was people asking if depression was a side effect.

Question: What is science behind this ?
Answer: Circulation mostly. 

When it's warm, our bodies circulate blood normally, sending oxygen, vitamins, minerals, all the things needed to grow nails. 

When it's cold, our bodies preserve the heat by lowering circulation to our extremities, i.e fingers, toes...

Less circulation, less things to make nails with, slower growing nails.

Question: The Salem Witch Trials.
Answer: If you want a really good depiction of it I'd say check out the crucible. It is also an allegory for the red scare but it still does justice to the trials themselves.

Question: Why does the colour black attract and store heat?
Answer: You've got it slightly wrong. The reason why an object is even black in the first place is because it absorbs all the light. 

In other words, the color of an object depends on how it absorbs, reflects and refracts light. When an objects absorbs a lot of light, it will, by definition, be a dark color.

Question: Why are some people smarter than others?
Answer: There is no single determining factor. Size of the brain makes a big difference but doesn't always have a direct correlation. You also have to remember that "smarter" is a very vague term. There is "artistic" intelligence, "mathematic" intelligence etc etc. Some people are great artists but can't do simple Algebra. I'm on the other side of that spectrum, I can't draw a stick figure but I'm great with math. So since it's not a single thing that determines overall intelligence it is very hard to pinpoint exactly which area of the brain is responsible for this function.

So my answer would be, there is too many variables to know for sure. And honestly we don't really know enough about the brain to know the answer to this complex question.

Question: Why is death by firing squad so bad?
Answer: I would think any experts would be unavailable for comment. Coming up with a best way to die is like debating what kind of dog crap tastes best.
I think the anticipation would be the worst. A shot to the heart would cause shock (feel no pain) and unconsciousness within seconds. Death would happen within minutes. If no bullet knocked your heart out, bleeding out could take awhile.
Chemical injection executions usually report burning sensations.

Question: In the hypothetical Gray Goo doomsday scenario, wouldn't an EMP sort the problem?
Answer: If hypothetically we were to create a device that's not a nuke that was capable of generating a large EMP, then it would likely be able to destroy the hypothetical grey goo assuming your hypothetical nanobots worked in any way similarly to modern electronics. But since we have neither nanobots nor EMPs, speculating about the effectiveness of either is kind of difficult.

Question: Why is reddit hivemind considered left and not center?
Answer: Young people are generally more left leaning, where older people are generally more right leaning. Young people are also more likely to be on an Internet forum such as reddit.

Question: Why are soft porn books so popular in America?
Answer: Are you talking about the so-called "romance novels"?  There's not generally a large section at bookstores labeled "soft porn", so I'm not exactly sure what you're asking about.

Edit: And if you are talking about "romance novels", yes, [they are very popular](_URL_0_), and I suspect that the authors don't get paid particularly well in comparison to authors of more well-respected genres, which would make the margin on them greater, and therefore more likely to get published in the first place.

Question: Aside from tradition or belief, what are the benefits/drawbacks to female circumcision?
Answer: There are no known health benefits to female circumcision.

Drawbacks include recurrent infections, chronic pain, cysts, an inability to get pregnant, complications during childbirth, and fatal bleeding.

Question: So how did cows, chickens and pigs become the standard protein to consume?
Answer: Cows are large and don't fight back. They also provide milk daily.

Chickens can't fly, and lay eggs.

Pigs reproduce FAST, and will eat damn near anything.

Question: Why are children allowed to agree to a user agreement online but are not allowed to sign contracts without a parent?
Answer: They can agree to terms and conditions online, sign contracts, and do all sorts of other stuff, but that doesn't mean its legal or valid for them to do so if challenged in court. A court could throw it out, or enforce the contract, or something in the middle. It starts getting a bit more complicated from there in legal contract terms on specific circumstances.

Question: Why are there no navy battleships with multiple large cannons in the US Navy anymore?
Answer: Because they're obsolete.

They have been replaced by aircraft carriers and guided missile cruisers. Both of which can attack ships and land targets over-the-horizon more effectively than a gigantic artillery on a battleship.

Question: Instead of trying to be emotionless, why poker players don't exaggerate fake emotions to confuse the opponent?
Answer: Doing nothing all the time gives away nothing.  Exaggerating fake emotions is you doing something, doing something can be tracked.  In the case of poker where there are so many hands, you trying to mimic exaggerated movements will eventually lead to inaccuracies where your "tells" will become known.  This technique may work while playing with friends but pros will be able to pick up on things.

Question: Why do you gain weight when you quit smoking?
Answer: Nicotine is an [appetite suppressant ](_URL_0_) , so it follows that people will want to eat more when they stop nicotine. Another side effect of nicotine withdrawal is anxiety, which causes some people to turn to food for comfort. Some people turn to snacking to stave off nicotine cravings as well, because it's a distraction and because it is something to do with your mouth that isn't smoking cigarettes.

Question: Why do employers set up their application processes the way they do?
Answer: The resume thing is so a bot can scan and look for pertinent information, then, if the application is approved it's forwarded to a real person.

Question: I am five, explain who do we owe money to if all countries are in debt?
Answer: [This exact question asked and answered . . .](_URL_0_)

Question: Did YouTube just update its video player while I was watching a video...? Is that even possible? Windows 10 Pro btw...international law be darned
Answer: The player does look different than it did just a few minutes ago when I watched a different video. A simple change like that wouldn't be hard to push out.

Question: What is the Holy See? And why is it in the UN?
Answer: It is essentially the leadership of the Catholic Church, and is responsible for the governance of the church worldwide.

It's regarded as a sovereign entity, akin to a nation state. For most of history the Catholic Church has controlled territory, however between 1870 and 1929 it had no territory but nonetheless continued to have diplomatic relations with other nations. In 1929 it was granted the small territory of Vatican City, however diplomatic relations continue to be with the Holy See. The territory of the Vatican City is considered subordinate to the organisation of the Holy See.

EDIT: Also, the Holy See is not a full UN member, it's an observer. It gets involved but it doesn't get to vote.

Question: why is it that when I have a cold and I blow my nose the junk inside only seems to be clear for a few seconds... Then after that I go back to a stuffy nose.
Answer: You get stuffed up not because of the snotty stuff, but because your sinuses get inflamed. So everything sort of expands temporarily.

Question: Why are fedoras considered "uncool?"
Answer: Layman speculation, but I think it may be because fedoras have started to become synonymous with nerdy kids trying to look cool. *Generally* the nerdy kids who wear them aren't textbook definition "attractive", and they'll often wear fedoras with jeans, t-shirts, and things that fedoras generally don't go with. This probably makes up 60+ percent of the times I see fedoras being worn. I can only guess that other people see that as often as I do, but I think that's created a stigma around fedoras.

Question: What the heck is happening with this banana? 0_o
Answer: You can't reverse something from being rotten, to edible. The title is misleading. It's not a rotten banana, it's just a little bruised. If I ha to guess, I'd say all he's doing is removing the bruised look of the banana, but the taste and texture of the banana would likely remain the same. Softer and mushier than a more ripe banana.

Question: Why can antidepressants increase suicidal thoughts?
Answer: It's a bit of a strange thing to think about, but the most dangerous time in depression is often actually not at the lowest point: the most dangerous time is actually when you're just starting to improve.

**Warning: generalizations ahead** This doesn't apply to everyone, everyone reacts differently to depression itself and anti-depressants. Anything from this point on is "some people" focusing on those who are probably most likely to experience suicidal thoughts while on anti-depressants.

Firstly, then, let's address: **Why don't people commit suicide when they're at their most depressed?**

When you're at the lowest point of depression, most people literally couldn't give a fuck. About anything, anything at all. They want to stay in bed and hide away from the world. At that point, most people aren't actually thinking about suicide: their brain isn't even functioning at a high enough level to consider it.

At the super depressed stage, they'll tend to avoid friends and family, withdraw from the world: miss school, not go to work - things that can really put your life into a negative spiral. Again though, at the time that isn't on the person's mind: all they're thinking is that they can't deal with those things right now. It's actually later this starts to matter.

So what am I saying? Mostly, that when someone starts taking anti-depressants, that can start to (slowly) lift their mood from "super-depressed" lows, and help their brain, well, start working again.

**Why does that matter?**

So now you've got somebody who's just been at the lowest point, with very clear memories of that low point. They're starting to think about the consequences of that low point: problems at work, arguments with family, missing friends birthdays, failed exams. They may even have lost their job and have bills to worry about.

A few weeks ago, that stuff didn't matter "inside": they were too depressed for it to even make sense, never mind be something they cared about: but now suddenly they're starting to think more clearly and... oh, shit. I've lost my job, I've not seen my friends for 6 months, my girlfriend left me, I've got a mortgage payment to go out.

All those things hit, along with the memories of the crippling depression itself (which is a pretty shit thing to think back on)... and suddenly the world is looking like a pretty bad place to be. And remember, you're only **starting** to recover, you're not suddenly a happy clappy toddler: your emotions are only a level or two above severely depressed, so you're not exactly in the best state of mind, and now you have more of an awareness of how bad things can be.

That feeling of "I'm worthless because I've been depressed", "I've fucked up my life" and "I'm a burden on my family" is often what triggers the suicidal thoughts, not the depression itself. Depression doesn't kill you, the consequences of depression kill you.

That's why anti-depressants can increase suicidal thoughts. But of course, the alternative is to leave people at the most depressed stage: in which case the above thoughts will likely come through *eventually* anyway. So it's not even like there's an option to, well, just leave people depressed.

After taking anti-depressants, it can take a little while to get your emotions and life back on track: and that middle period is the dangerous time. I just wish that was more publicized so people would know to watch out for it, and to look out for each other.

Question: In Asian countries it's customary to remove ones shoes before entering the house. It's seems like a very common sense and practical thing to do. And yet in America most people wear their shoes in their home. Why?
Answer: It stems from classical Asian (particularly Chinese) thought and perceptions on order. "Inside" is separate from "outside." "Inside" is clean and orderly while "outside" is dirty (this also helps explain why it's viewed as OK in many Asian city for small children to go the bathroom in the gutter, for adults to spit on the sidewalks, trash in the alleys, etc... Outside's just dirty) Naturally, when you transition from "outside" to "inside" you want to remove the dirty shoes and change into your "clean" slippers.

Question: Why does it feel so much better when another person massages your head as opposed to when you use your own hand to massage your head?
Answer: This is based on my own experience, not scientifically-proved. But as someone who loves massaging very much, when massaged by others, I cannot predict which part of my organ (like head, feet) is going to be massaged and I feel really pleased. I guess this can also answer why you cannot tickle yourself, as your brain has already expected your own act.

Question: Are some humans inherently more intelligent than others, or do we all pretty much have the same potential for brilliance if we work our brains out enough? (ignoring birth defects)
Answer: Intelligence is highly heritable. It has a heritability of ~0.5-0.75, more or less the same as the heritability of height (0.6-0.8 heritability). 

IQ is a little complicated, because we aren't exactly sure what we're measuring. Theres plenty of decent theories, including speed of neuronal transmission, more efficient synaptic linkages, and a more efficient oxygen transport system in the brain. However, best as we can work out it simply reflects an organisms 'genetic fitness'. If you have a very bad illness as a child, that illness alone probably shaves whole IQ points off you final IQ. Not many, but some. A serious, months long illness might cost as many as 3-5 IQ points by the time you're an adult. This probably accounts for some of why IQ appears to rise over time in populations - we're getting increasingly better at providing good, disease free environments for our children, and that helps the end stage IQ. 

IQ isn't actually shockingly helpful for working out 'brilliance' though. It's much more helpful in terms of working out if you suffer mental retardation. The lower the score, the more significant it is, and the more difference in scores matters. For example, someone with an IQ of 70 (borderline mental retardation) is quite definitively, and noticeably more dumb than someone with an IQ of 85 (a normal IQ), and very noticeably more intelligent than someone with an IQ of 55 (barely functional). At 70 IQ points, even an extra 5 points either way is a significant difference. On the other hand, telling the difference between say IQ 115 (average for University students) and IQ 130 (low end genius, high end PHD students average) is actually quite tricky. 

You probably can work it out consistently, but its not going to make as big a difference in their lives. Someone with IQ 115 may well work out something the IQ 130 couldn't, or have a much more important, influential scientific career. At a high IQ level, IQ simply stops being relevant. You're smart enough to do basically whatever you'd like, and it becomes other factors (how conscientious are you, do you seek out new knowledge etc) that determines what a persons 'brilliance' appears to be. IQ ceases to matter particularly - the general rule I learnt at university was that up to around 130, IQ has some meaning, past 130 it simply stops being a useful benchmark. 

There are changes, you do get people with IQ  >  130, and do tend to be slightly more 'brilliant' than people with lower IQ's. But its more to do with a very 'well made' brain (very few growth issues or illnesses), and a whole range of non IQ factors, like level of / access too education. But some humans are inherently more intelligent than others, and genetics probably plays the most important role

Question: Has human intelligence changed drastically over time?
Answer: There's multiple types of intelligence.  Also, if you were to try to debate Socrates, you'd have problems of language and culture, religious and scientific understanding that's developed over 2,000 years.  

If you just want to know about intelligence, there's something called the Flynn Effect.  When we've looked at the results from all sorts of intelligence tests all over the world, from 1939 to today, we've seen that the intelligence of the world (as far as we're able to understand and measure it) has significantly increased over time.  There's factors of increased education, increased efficacy of education, nutrition, iodine in salt (iodine in salt has drastically reduced the rate of mental retardation throughout the world), and an overall better health among other things.

So we don't know how well Socrates would fare in modern society, it was so different in so many ways that there's probably not a way to compare the two.  He might have been a genius in his field, especially considering he's still being taught and studied today, but outside his field or compared to modern day, it's probably impossible to know.

Question: How do spiders walk on walls and pretty much any other surface?
Answer: They use the force, specifically the [van der waal force](_URL_0_). Like geckos, the bottom of a spiders foot branches out into ever finer little hairs until they are so fine they are able to interact with the surface they are walking on at a molecular level, loosely bonding with it to the point that they almost become part of it.


TL;DR spiders, fuckin ninja's man.

Question: How did the ancient civilizations/kingdoms "die out"
Answer: Each civilization died out in a different way. Some slowly and over time, some relatively quickly. It almost always comes to some fundamental flaw in said country's system of government; the Roman Empire fell because they could not supplement their armies, and had to rely on mercenaries, and as you might guess, hiring your enemies to defend you from your other enemies can often be a problem.

It's also worth noting that almost no civilization "dies out;" rather, more often than not, they transition to a new government or are annexed by another country, but the people living there still remain. For example, you could say the English Colonies died out, but in reality we simply broke away from the British Empire. When Rome transitioned from a Republic into an Empire, that was the "dying out" of the Roman Republic; but the people living there didn't go anywhere themselves. And when America went to war with Mexico, won, and then claimed the lands of Arizona, New Mexico and California, the people already living there weren't killed... do you get the idea?

Even the Mayans and Inca, who we are taught were "killed off" by evil conquistadors, didn't actually die out. Their civilization vanished, but the Mayans themselves still live on - many of the Spanish who moved to the Americas had relations with the locals and produced offspring. People of Mexican ethnicity are descendants of the Mayans.

It's worth noting that civilizations are still "dying out" frequently, even in the Modern World. The USSR collapsed in the 1980's, to name just one.

So, hopefully that answers your question. If you have a specific question about a specific civilization/kingdom, feel free to ask, although Google and Wikipedia can probably give you better answers in those scenarios.

Question: why is it that the age a person can legally appear in porn is universally at least 18 (in some countries older) but age of consent varies so much?
Answer: Just a guess I would think that we hold a child at a sexually mature age competent to engage in an intimate relationship. We do not see them competent to understand the ramifications of what appearing in porn can do to you in the future

Question: Why do arguments involving racial bias in the US rarely take into account the fact that the white population is much higher than people of color?
Answer: These things are often taken into account, but even when you take that into account it still turns out that white people are over represented. The US Census says that non-Hispanic white people are about 62% of the US population. However, more than 62% of actors on major TV shows are white (from my experience. I haven't counted it all up).

Given the population disparity, one would still expect a majority white world, but it would be significantly less white than what is usually shown.

I realize that's answered largely in terms of TV, but the same logic applies to the office example (though you would have to examine the demographics more locally in that case).

Question: How do TV programmes like The Simpsons make money from being aired?
Answer: Fox pays the creators of The Simpsons to create 1 or more seasons (depending on the contract). They use this money to pay the writers, animators, voice actors, creative staff, and everyone else involved with making the actual show. 

Fox is paying the creators because a certain number of viewers will watch the show which means that companies are paying Fox to air commercials during the time slot The Simpsons is airing. The more viewers, the more ad revenue can be asked for. Depending on the contract, Fox might also get a cut of any DVD/digital, merchandise sales.

Question: pushing a car to start it?
Answer: If the car is in gear and you're pushing it, then the rotation of the wheels will rotate the drive shaft (transmission, which then rotates the piston shaft (engine) (none of that is accurate terminology, by the way). If you get the piston shaft rotating, it can help you start the car because it will expand and compress the engine cylinders as if the car were already running. All you need to do is to feed some fuel in (gas pedal) and have enough electricity to run the spark plug ~~(battery)~~ (see /u/mike_pants  below).

The key-start method requires more power, because it has to run the starter motor, which tries to start the entire engine by rotating all the pistons. By pushing the car and turning the pistons already, the load on the starter motor is lessened.

Question: What is maximum dynamic pressure, or "max-q" in aerospace engineering?
Answer: When a rocket takes off, it has to force its way through the air.  If a rocket was launched horizontally (going sideways at the same height above the Earth the entire time), the air resistance would just get higher and higher as the rocket got faster and faster.

Rockets don't launch horizontally though.  They rise vertically going up in the atmosphere.  The higher the rocket goes, the is less air it needs to force itself through.  There is less air the higher you go.

At the same time the air it needs to force itself through is lessening (because the rocket is getting higher), it's also encountering more resistance because the rocket is going faster and faster while it climbs.  The faster you go through the air, at any altitude, the harder it is at any given speed.

So -- we have two things determining the total air the rocket needs to push itself through: how high it is, and how fast it's going.  Those are both changing constantly.  It's getting higher-and-higher in altitude (lowering the force needed to push through the air), but at the same time going faster-and-faster (increasing the force needed to push through the air).

At one point in the rocket's flight, those decreasing and increasing numbers converge on a number that is the most work the rocket has to do to get through the air (so this is where things exposed to the forces are most likely to fail).

In engineering shorthand, it's called Max Q.

Question: Why are memory storage options set up on increments based on the power of two (16gb, 32gb, 64gb etc...)?
Answer: When you store something in a memory, you have to remember where you saved it, i.e. the index of the starting byte. E.g. you save a file, it is at index 1000. And remember you need to store that index somewhere, so that next time you are looking for yoir your file you can find it. Computer saves the address in memory too, e.g. keeps "porn.jpg at address 1000". That number 1000 is saved in bytes, right? So let's say your computer uses 4 bytes to keep the index. 4 bytes = 4*8 bits = 32 bits and with 32 bits you can store 2^32 numbers. So it makes more sense if memories have powers of 2 bytes, because then when we're saving addresses we can use all the bits assigned to it.

Update: fixed a typo

Question: Why do Republican candidates want to defund planned parenthood?
Answer: 1. Being against abortion is a winning strategy for Republicans wanting other Republicans to vote for them.  Planned Parenthood is an abortion provider.

2. Republicans want to control women's sexuality and Planned Parenthood provides basic health care for women by providing birth control advice, contraceptives, cervical cancer screening, pap smears, breast exams and pregnancy care.  We can't have those uppity women thinking they have rights to healthcare or birth control!

Question: why did commanders throughout history fight in the front lines?
Answer: Because they were often the the most effective fighting force in the field of battle.  Your typical commander was a noble, which meant:

* they had ample food and medical care as a child, making them bigger and stronger than most men
* they were trained in sword and horse almost from birth
* they had the best equipment money could buy
* they were surrounded by similarly well equipped and well trained bodyguards

So the commander didn't just lead the battle, they often served as shock troops who could turn the tide of the battle.

Question: How can companies give away free products and still make money?
Answer: The actual cost of *producing* those products is only a fraction of the cost the average consumer will usually end up paying for them. Meanwhile, marketing is actually a huge expense for businesses.

i.e. Let's say a vibrator costs $10 to make. The company usually sells for $20. You get one for free - to you, it's a savings of $20, but to the company, it's a loss of only $10. It's risky, but people are creatures of habit.

When this vibrator breaks or no longer satisfies you, you'll likely go back to that particular company. Assuming every vibrator costs $20, then just buying one will recoup costs for the company (since you've paid $20, and the company has given you two vibrators that cost them $10 each to make). Then, any *more* you buy will be more profitable for them.

Especially since word of mouth from your friends is often one of the biggest influences on a consumer. You happen to brag about how awesome that vibrator is to your friend, and when their boyfriend dumps them and they need something to get them through the day, they'll go the company you were bragging about. And then they'll form a habit or positive association with this company, so when their vibrator gets stolen by that creepy one-night stand and they need a new one, they'll also go back to this same company.

So in this hypothetical, the company gives away one free vibrator, which only costs them $10, and in return guarantee four more vibrators bought, each of which brings the company a $10 net profit (-$10 cost of production + $20 sale of vibrator = $10 profit). So that's $40 in profit off of the vibrators directly resulting from this one freebie. Subtract the cost of the freebie, and they just $30 profit.

**tl;dr - Company gives you a $10 vibrator for free because they'll get a $30 net profit from it.**

Question: How time signatures work and why songs in unusual time signatures are notable.
Answer: Consider the time signature to be like a language. Most pop music is written in the language of 4/4. This is when the emphasis is on the fourth beat, and everything is written nicely to fit into grouping of four. In this language there are many chords, scales, and note progressions that we've used to hearing. These are the words and sentences that make up the 4/4 language. Since birth, most of the music you listen to is written in 4/4, so everything seems natural and normal. Think of 1 2 3 **4**, 1 2 3 **4**, 1 2 3 **4**, 1 2 3 **4**.

There are other time signatures used in music such as 7/4 (used in a lot of Prog Rock or IDM). This time signature would sound "weird" to the average person because it features many patterns, chords, scales etc that make up the 7/4 language. It takes a little bit of practice to get into it's rhythm. Check out the song Money by Pink Floyd for an example of this: 1 2 3 4 5 6 **7**, 1 2 3 4 5 6 **7**, 1 2 3 4 5 6 **7**, 1 2 3 4 5 6 **7**. This can seem off to us because we're expecting the typical 4/4 beat and instead we get a little bit of tension hearing something different.

Finally classical music tends to be in a huge assortment of time signatures. Another language we could recognize is 3/4. This is normally reserved for waltz. This would be **1** 2 3, **1** 2 3, **1** 2 3, **1** 2 3.

Avante-garde jazz music can often change time signature requiring knowledge of multiple time signature "languages": to be able to play on the fly.

Question: Everyone wants to cut the defense budget, but what would actually happen if USA removed half of its defenses around the world?
Answer: If that actually happened, there would probably be a lot of geopolitical chaos, but it's not that simple. The US wastes billions of dollars in wasteful spending contracts that ends up in the pockets of CEO's of military supply companies, rather than actually going toward defense. 

So cutting the defense budget and literally reducing the size of the military are not the same thing.

Question: How do screens that you can only see when facing them from straight on work?
Answer: Polarizing filters.

Think of shining a flashlight beam. It comes off like a cone, right?

A polarizing filter only allows certain light rays through. So picture a piece of cardboard with a narrow slit cut in it. Shine the flashlight through that. Only a little bit of the light comes out, straight through. 

A privacy screen only lets the light rays traveling straight ahead to come through, like its coming out of a little tiny slot. The rays off to the side and blocked by the polarization, or the “cardboard.”

EDIT: The light rays that get through have to match up with the filter’s orientation axis. Think again of that sit in the cardboard. If it’s up and down, the light waves up and down get through. The waves side to side do not. The ones at an angle...only some get through.

Question: Why does the stream of water from a faucet get thinner as it gets lower?
Answer: The rate of flow (liters per minute or whatever) depends on the width of the flow and its speed: a high-speed narrow stream can carry the same volume as a slow wide one. Gravity causes the speed to increase as the water falls, so it must get narrower in order to maintain the same flow rate everywhere along the stream.

Question: Why do so many of my local (Californian) marijuana dispensaries get shut down if marijuana is legal through a Dr's. Reccomendation?
Answer: The state has decreed they are legal, the federal government has not. So the feds can still raid/shut down these dispensaries.

Question: How does percentage grade work in regards to terrain?
Answer: It means that for every 100 feet you travel horizontally, you move up 20 feet vertically. The percentage change is the percent increase in elevation as you move horizontally

Question: If the human race originated from Africa and spread across the world, how do we all have different complexions and facial features compared to our African counterparts?
Answer: Basically, what you have is natural selection producing different traits: for example, if you live in Northern Europe, and you have dark skin, you may not get enough Vitamin D, and you won't live to produce offspring. Thus, in Northern Europe, having paler skin, and less natural protection from Vitamin D production and the sun's rays meant you were more likely to produce offspring if you were white. (Which is why most of the population of England, is the color of typing paper.)

Question: Heartburn
Answer: Like you're 5: Basically, different foods react differently in different people. Heartburn can be caused by a wide variety of food, but it's usually a food the is high in acidic content or is spicy. When eaten, that food doesn't sit well in the stomach and causes stomach acid to react, often 'climbing up' the esophagus during a burp. When this happens, the left over acid in the esophagus creates a 'burn' in the chest or throat, usually in the area around the heart or just above. 

This is heartburn. 

There's a lot more to it, and the way I described it may not be 100% accurate sounding, but that's the basics of it.

not so ninja edit: you're*

Question: Why doesn't America, Britain or "the free world" send an army to just take ISIS out?
Answer: Let's assume we did this. Who do we target ? How do you tell an ISIS member from a local ? Answer is you can't unless they do something. We could probably enforce martial law but then we are an occupying force in a country (Mostly Syria) that hasn't asked for us. That's a recipe for guerrilla warfare - something these guys are good at. They can simply wait until we get tired of the attrition (slow loss of life over time) and give up. This is the lesson of Afghanistan.

Question: Why do you feel like you're burning when in contact with something extremely cold?
Answer: The extreme cold is sending your pain receptors into overdrive. At the end of the day tissue death feels horrible whether by heat or cold. Fire is generally much hot than the cold we feel is cold. So the "burning" feeling is not really a literal burning feeling but most associated with extreme heat applied to tissue.

Question: Why does going into hot tubs make you want to pee?
Answer: Looks like it has to do with a change in blood pressure when you get in the tub. The hot water raises your blood pressure which triggers a chemical called atrial natriuretic peptide which directs your kidneys to produce salt which then your body wants to get rid of. So you need to pee.

Question: Why does it matter when I take medicine ? (day, night, after/before meal)
Answer: Some of it's to do with absorption process. Some drugs are designed to be absorbed in the stomach. If you want a drug to break down in your stomach, then it needs to be taken with food so that the stomach is ready to break things down. Food can also help avoid nausea, and can slow down the actual absorption since the food has to be absorbed alongside the drugs.

There are some drugs which need to be taken on an empty stomach, just before food. Again, this is to ensure that it's in the correct place in the absorption process when it starts being broken - to ensure its in the stomach, and not the oesophagus. These drugs often tell you to eat 30 minutes after taking the drugs to start the digestive process.

As for time of day, anything which makes you sleepy would normally need to be taken at bed time.

And there are some drugs, like the contraceptive pill, which need to be taken at the same time of day each day so that they work with the body's natural daily cycle to produce hormones,

Source: my girlfriend is a nurse, and I just asked her.

Question: How does investing in a startup work? And how do you make a profit as an investor?
Answer: It just depends on the deal you make with the business you are investing in. 

You could, for example, invest some start up money, and buy a share in the business. you will then make what ever % you decided on of the profits the business makes. So, for example, you invest $10,000 and own 40% of the business and will earn 40% of all their profits. 

You could also have also have a deal where you lend them $10,000 and they have to pay it back to you + interest. So you make profit on whatever interest rate you decide on.

Question: how are plants related to animals? Which evolved first?
Answer: A lot of different sorts of life evolved before either plants or animals even existed. At some point way back when, the Tree of Life split into two groups. Group A comprises organisms we now call "Bacteria," while Group B includes everything else: lots of single-celled stuff, algae, plants, fungi, animals, and other characters.  
Many years later, Group B split again into two groups: "Archaea" (a bunch of single-celled dudes) and "Eukaryota."  
Yet later, Eukaryota split again, leading to "Bikonta" (some protists, algae, and **land plants**) and "Unikonta" (some protists, fungi, and **animals**).  
  
Which came first is a more complicated matter, depending on what you want to consider "plants." If you mean land plants, which I indicated above, then animals came first. Single-celled animals filled the seas before anything lived on land at all. However, photosynthesis has been around for much longer than any animals, and land plants existed before land animals. [This](_URL_0_) might be useful. Hope this helps!

Question: How do plants that don't have seeds reproduce?
Answer: Naturally Roses do reproduce with seeds, but many plants also reproduce vegetatively, this means they can spread through the soil with roots, or over the ground rather than spread through the air. 
If you take a cutting, many plants can detect that they could grow roots by having contact with soil and not light on one side, and sunlight but not soil on the other, they can then grow roots themselves as a clone of the parent.

Question: Why does background prove/give evidence that there was a big bang?
Answer: 1) By looking at the stars we realised that they are all going away from us in all direction. And not only that, the farther they are from us, the faster they are going away. This point to an expansion of the universe.

2) Speculation time. If we are currently expanding, that mean that in that past the universe was denser. So we can imagine what the universe should look like if we look at what matter look like when it's denser and denser.

3) When matter and energy is denser you get plasma (like in a star). Atoms move around too fast and less their electron. Light don't travel very much through plasma. But if you decrease the density a bit, electron attach to atoms and then light can go through. So we can speculate that in the past there was a point when light count really travel through the universe, it was bumping into electron all the time. But the universe cooled and then light could travel. We know what the universe is made off, it's mostly hydrogen and helium. So we can test at which point hydrogen and helium become a plasma. So now we know that If our speculation is true, at some point in the past there was a point where light was finally able to travel and we know that would be the temperature of the hydrogen/helium.

4) Matter ''leak'' energy through radiation. That's true of all matter at all energy level. And the wavelength at which that matter ''leak'' energy depend on the temperature. So if you know the wavelength, you know the temperature and if you know the temperature you know the wavelength. Like I said, IF our speculation is true, then we know the temperature at which that should happen, so we know the wavelength of the first light that could travel through the universe.

5) But when light travel through an expanding universe, it lose energy. That's the Doppler effect. It's the same thing happening when you hear an ambulance or a F1 car passing by. The sound change as it pass by you. Light do the same. Depending is the source of the light is going away or toward you, the wavelength will change.

6) So again. IF our speculation is right. We should at a specific distance from us, see a specific wavelength of microwave that was red shifted from the original wavelength of the first light to travel through the universe after it went from a plasma to a gas.

7) And that's exactly what we see. The CMB is first light that could travel through the universe, red shifted by billions of years of travelling through an expanding universe until it reached us.

Question: What did Rick Perry actually do?
Answer: He told a person that she should resign.

She said, no, she didn't want to resign.

He said that if she didn't resign, he would veto all funding to her office.

She didn't.  He did.

He was indicted for using his veto power inappropriately and coercively.

Question: what does it mean to be a "neckbeard"?
Answer: a "neckbeard" is shorthand for the stereotype of the "live in their parents basement"-internet user who is long on obscure knowledge and short on social skills and hygiene. The term itself comes from a particular type of beard, the neckbeard, that most people consider unstylish, but that many people who don't care enough to shave end up with. 

It isn't really related to MRA/Redpill stuff, except that some people see an overlap between the opinions of MRA/redpill people and "neckbeards," because the neckbear stereotype often includes anger at or dislike of women.

Question: How do we hear where sound comes from?
Answer: Several ways. First, we have two ears and the closest one which is pointing toward a sound will perceive it as being slightly louder. There is also a travel time for sound and it will arrive at one ear slightly before the other, and our brains can detect that and translate it to approximate direction.

Another factor is the pinna of the ear, which is basically the outer structure. This shape changes how sounds from different directions reflect off it and so slightly changes the sound. Our brains can adapt to that and use it to determine where a sound comes from; change that ear shape and your brain loses that direction sense until it can adapt to the new shape.

Question: Other than going splat, what are some potential health risks to Skydiving?
Answer: Similar risks to riding a roller coaster- the excitement could mix poorly with certain health conditions. Heart conditions in particular come to mind- your heart will probably beat like crazy.

It's also possible to injure yourself on the landing even with a fully deployed parachute.

Question: Why is amateur acting (like films made by students for a class presentation or something) so unnatural, awkward, and different from movies/tv shows?
Answer: The quality of acting gets better with experience, and often times the editing and scheduling does as well. An amateur film for a class presentation might have two or three people working on it for a few weeks...and they're splitting their time between filming and the rest of their life. A "real" show has teams of professionals working on different aspects for months at a time.

Question: Help me understand networking protocols and ports
Answer: nitpick -- UDP is a network layer protocol, as it's best-effort. TCP is a transport layer protocol, as orderly delivery is guaranteed.

Question: Why does Santa Claus go by so many names (St. Nicholas, Kris Kringle, etc)?
Answer: Santa Claus is an amalgam of dozens if not hundreds of different mythical/religious characters and a few actual historical figures. As such some of the names of those separate figures carried through to modernity as alternate names for Santa Claus.

Question: If marriage is a spiritual Union, why does the government offer benefits if there's separation of church/state?
Answer: because not all marriages are a spiritual union. My first marriage, when i was more of an atheist, was to another more or less atheist done at city hall with no mention of god. 

and it was still a marriage.

The problem i have with the "spiritual union" claim about marriage is that that is just what SOME people, not all people, think about it. 

Millions of people in the US are in such marriages. By your definition, if it is a religious spiritual union, they are not married. but yet they are. so clearly that definition is lacking.

Question: Why do your fingernails grow so much faster than your toenails?
Answer: Partially, it's because of circulation. Your fingertips are generally warmer and get more nutrients than your toes.

Question: Is there anywhere on the planet that naturally desalinates ocean water besides evaporation and formation of icebergs?
Answer: Many living organisms are able to separate water from its solutes on the cellular level through osmosis.

Question: How does "shadow banning" work?
Answer: So it's kinda like I'm back in high school then?

Question: How do medically induced coma's work.
Answer: The Doctor's essentially give you anesthesia to make you go to sleep and keep you asleep.

This is generally done for people who have suffered severe trauma; such as severe burns, several broken bones, head injuries, etc. In order to reduce pain, aid healing and just make everything more smooth.

There are many of the same risks as a normal coma, you might not wake up, you may suffer brain damage, your muscles with atrophy, stuff like that.

Question: Why don't PGA professionals repair their divots?
Answer: You do see caddies do it occasionally, but frankly it's a waste unless it's the right kind of grass. (You don't replace certain kinds of divots because it's more effective to use sand to level the surface and allow the surrounding grass to knit together.)

The proper repair, in any case, is done by the huge groundskeeping crew brought in to care for the course at every tournament.

Question: How did homo sapiens differ from the Homo species right before modern extant Human Species (i.e. homo sapiens)?
Answer: >  But which one was right before us in this chain and how did it differ from us i.e. sapiens.

Currently *Homo heidelbergensis* holds this position.

 >   How did their body structure differ from us (any different organs)

The differences, relatively speaking are very slight. Nothing so drastic as having completely different organs. They are one of the many transitional steps leading up to *Homo sapiens.*

 >  and what caused their extinction, was it us?

They evolved. The speciated into Neanderthals and *Homo sapiens*.

Question: Why is the rapist from the front page not waiting in jail for a trial?
Answer: I treat 2x posts like that as victimization fanfiction.  You could probably post a summary of a lifetime original movie there and get 1000 karma.

Not saying this story in particular is fabricated, but it's unverifiable, and some have to be.

EDIT: just read the update and I definitely don't believe OP.

Question: why has California not legalized pot beyond medicinal use?
Answer: Some of the most well funded anti-legalization lobbies in the state are sponsored by the legal dispensaries and co-ops. They would hate to have inexpensive, high-quality, locally and responsibly sourced cannabis flood the market and ruin their racket.

Question: how come animals dont know that the tail theyre after is theirs?
Answer: I giggle like a child every time I fart and it makes a funny noise. There's no reason, really. Often times younger animals chase their tales, while older ones tend not to. I think it's a playfull quality

Question: Phil Spector's Wall of Sound Technique
Answer: The purpose was to maximize the amount of sound per second.  The effect, when done right, was startling compared to other kinds of music.  For pop music, where you are competing for people's attention continuously, the technique proved to be very commercially successful.

Imagine that you are looking at a graph of the amount of sound energy being produced by a recording.  Let's start with just the drum.  On beats, the energy graph hits a peak.  Between beats, the energy graph is at zero.

Now you layer in the bass.  The bass notes create more peaks on the graph so there's less time when the graph is at zero.

Layer in the guitars and the vocals.  There's a lot more time when the graph is above zero, and relatively few places where the graph is at zero.  Maybe it never goes all the way to zero, but instead just shows a variance between a high point and a low point.  That's what most pop music looked like before the Wall of Sound.

The Wall of Sound is an engineering technique that seeks to keep the sound graph at the peak as much as possible.  By controlling all the aspects of the recording using multiple tracks, overdubbing, and other techniques, the Wall of Sound produces a recording where there are very few low points on that sound energy graph.  The result is that the sound is distinctly more "powerful" than the average piece of recorded music.

The trick is that if you just turned up all the microphones used in the recording session or had the guitarists play endless chords, you end up with a muddled sonic mess.  It's like mixing all the colors on a paint palette - you'll end up with an unappetizing brown color.  Spector's genius was figuring out how to put all the pieces of the sound together so that what emerged was still recognizably a piece of pop music and not just a droning muddled mess.

Question: Through the laws of probability, how are no one's fingerprints alike?
Answer: It's 11pm and I'm on my second glass of wine, so I can't be bothered to do the math.

There are three types of fingerprints: whorl, loop and arch. Most people have 10 fingers, and can have any combination of those three fingerprints. There are also three different ways you can take a fingerprint: flat, slap or roll. Each method carries its own number of exact or "sort of, pretty close" matches.

There's [a paper/presentation by Michigan State](_URL_0_) that discusses the probability of fingerprint configuration, and each source in the table has a number to the power of at least 11, which far exceeds the world's population estimate of about 7 billion.

But it's sort of like lottery numbers. The odds may be incredibly small that you draw the winning ones, but that doesn't necessarily exclude other people from having the exact same combination as you.

So it's possible, just not very likely.

Question: how does adding a third polarizing filter allow more light to pass through, not less?
Answer: The polarizing filter doesn't only block the wrong-polarized light, but it also forces all the light that passes through it to now be polarized in the direction of the filter.

Also as you've noticed, polarizing filters will let through some differently-polarized light depending on *how* different the polarization is. 0 degree light will partially get through a 45 degree filter, but not at all through a 90 degree filter.

So when you have two filters at right angles (90 degrees) no light gets through because after the first filter, the polarization is totally wrong for the second filter.

When you have three filters at 45 degree angles, all of the light after the first filter is polarized at 0 degrees. Then some of the 0 degree light gets through the 45 degree filter, which resets it to 45 degrees, then some of the 45 degree light gets through the 90 degree filter (which also resets it to 90 degrees).

Question: Why is there an absolute zero, but not really an exact maximum temperature?
Answer: At Absolute Zero, molecular motion comes to a complete stop. 
You can't get lower than that.  

A maximum amount of molecular motion has yet to be established, so no maximum temperature has yet been determined..

Question: How does a particle accelerator work?
Answer: Despite what might be said elsewhere magnets have nothing to do with making particles speed up in a particle accelerator. Magnets are used to steer the particles (for instance if you want to have the particles go in a circle you use many magnets that each slightly bend the path of the particle) they also serve to focus the particles so that they do not become  too spread out from each other and collide with the vacuum pipe they are in. 

To actually boost a particle up to close to the speed of light there are a lot of different methods you can use. You mention electromagnetic waves in your question and this is normally the move common method these days. Before I got into how an electromagnetic wave can accelerate a particle, the reason you need a charged particle in the first place is that electricity and magnetism only have an effect on things that have 'charge'. This is analogous to mass and gravity. If something is going to be effected by gravity it needs to have mass. The more mass it has the more strongly it is effected. The same holds for charge and electromagnetic fields, no charge, no interaction with the electromagnetic field.

Now, to actually use an electromagnetic field to accelerate a particle (increase its speed in this case). I'm going to talk about one specific way that is probably the easiest to visualize. An electromagnetic wave consists of both an electric and magnetic component (its in the name afterall) what we care about is the electric part since it can actually do work on the particle and increase its speed. If you solve a few rather complicated equations you find out that for an electromagnetic wave inside a conducting structure (say a copper pipe) if you set up the size of the pipe correctly you can get the electric wave to always point along one axis. So all you need to do then is send your charged particle along this same direction and the electric field will 'push' on the particle, increasing its speed. You can imagine this like a surfer riding on a wave. If he sits at the right place on the wave he will be pushed along, otherwise he just ends up falling behind and falling over. This is a very basic picture of how an accelerator operates.

Question: If alcohol is considered a drug why do people call it being drunk instead of being high?
Answer: I am not sure but I do know that if you go back to at least the 50's calling someone high was synonymous with drunk. Same with "Stoned" but I think over time society takes broader terms for inebriation and stick them to a specific method.

Question: why does it feel so warm when you sit where someone else has been sitting, versus sitting back in your own seat?
Answer: It feels warm to sit where anyone else was sitting, including where you were sitting, if your butt is colder than the seat.

But if you were just sitting there, then your butt is the same temperature as the seat, so it won't feel warm.  However, if you were standing, your butt gets a bit colder because you're not sitting, which causes the spot where someone else was sitting to feel warmer.

There's a third option that makes it all become clear.  Be sitting for a while, and when someone gets up, go sit in their seat.  It won't feel very warm, because your butt is already warm from sitting.

Question: Why do men bald more than women?
Answer: Levels of DHT. You can actually get a shampoo that contains DHT blockers that hang out on your scalp and in your hair folicles to make it so don't go as bald.

Question: Some people say calories are all that matter so what would happen to someone if they ate a diet of only 2000 calories of refined sugar?
Answer: The "calories are all that matter" is in reference to weight gain/loss. You still need vitamins and minerals in your diet. And fiber is good for keeping your GI track healthy. If you only ate empty calories for an extended amount of time, you would star to suffer various vitamin deficiencies.

Question: Why do we yawn when others yawn near us?
Answer: A few people think differently about why this happens.

One idea is that when we see another person yawn, our brain tells our body that the area we are in has a low oxygen level.

Another is the relationship of being tired, we see another person yawn and then become tired as a result.

Lastly, there is an idea that yawning cools down the brain and allows it to work better, when one person yawns it makes other people's brains think they need to work better as a consequence. 
That is the extent of my limited knowledge, hope it helps

Question: When I get zapped/electrocuted for a fraction of a second, but feel the tingle for much longer, what is happening?
Answer: Shock can result in muscular spasms and tissue death from overheating, both of which can result in physical sensation. 

Somewhat unrelated, but 'electrocution' is actually a portmanteau of electric and execution, and refers explicitly to a fatal scenario, a non-lethal experience would be more properly called an electric shock.

Question: Why do people hate to agree with people they don't like?
Answer: Because agreeing with someone you don't like might imply that you've incorrectly evaluated the person. This can feel threatening to some people who will then choose to stick to their previous opinion; that removes the feeling of threat, it keeps things "consistent". 

People sometimes prefer to invalidate whatever made them agree with the disliked person because it's less of an effort than changing your mind about someone you don't like.

Also, if you've decided for any reason that "person X is bad", you can set yourself up so that anything X does or thinks *has* to be bad, by judging the actions/thoughts based on who performed them, instead of judging the actions or thoughts independently. That's also a mechanism to keep things consistent and make decision-making about a person "easy". It's how stereotypes are perpetuated; "X belongs to Y place/culture/gender/association, and Y is bad/does crappy things, therefore X is bad because they belong to Y".

Question: What's with all the hype with Raspberry Pi?
Answer: it's a charitable organization that makes a barebones computer that is the size of a deck of cards, yet has the power and capabilities or processing and outputting 1080p video all for $35.  What's not to like?

Question: The oil-drop experiment by Robert Millikan.
Answer: I actually did this experiment last year, and it was a lot more complex than I had thought, but the underlying principles are mostly straightforward:

Oil is sprayed into a chamber in a fine mist. The particles (droplets) are pretty small, but you can see them. Then, the droplets are exposed to radiation which will quite literally knock electrons off of the oil drops, leaving them with a net charge (same idea as static electricity).

Next, an electric field is applied and you watch the droplets and see how fast they move (they will move since they have a net charge, since you knocked electrons off). The idea is that you will see droplets move only at certain speeds, because you can only knock whole numbers of electrons away from the drops. 

Now suppose you see drops moving at 3 mph, 6 mph, 9 mph, etc. If you watch long enough to conclude that the drops will only move at these speeds (never at 5 mph), you can say, "Hey, if I knock off one electron, then it will go 3 mph, if two get knocked off, then it will go 6 mph, so the effect of one electron of charge is 3 mph!"

Then you can use what you know about the electric field you used, the size of the drops and all that to figure out the charge of that one electron.

This experiment is very hard because the charge of one electron is tiny, and experimental error will not give you perfectly spaced speeds, so you need to observe for a long time to conclude what that smallest possible charge is (Milikan took data for over 2 years).

Question: Why is NASA using the Delta IV Heavy instead of building more Saturn V's?
Answer: Actually, NASA is redeveloping the Saturn V AS WE SPEAK. [Dynetics has a contract](_URL_0_) to redevelop the Saturn's F1 rocket engine, now reclassified the F1-A, into the new F1-B. They've taken the original schematics, and even disassembled and 3D scanned a few remaining engines from storage. The original F1-A had some +5k parts, either bolted, bonded, or welded together. The new F1-B has  <  100. There were some problems we just didn't have the technology in the 60s to solve; for example, the thrust would oscillate at an increasing rate until the test engines would explode. To solve it, they welded damper plates on the inside of the mixer plate and cone. It solved the problem "good enough", but they couldn't figure out why it was happening or why the dampers worked as well as they did. Many parts were bespoke, hand made, because they didn't have the manufacture technology we do now.

EDIT: [Another link](_URL_1_) telling more of the beginning. Somewhere in there is a link to the test fire of an original F1-A fuel pump. It's a 31k ft/lb thrust rocket engine, 55k HORSEPOWER, *just to run the fuel pump*.

Question: How does the FCC choose which words/phrases to censor?
Answer: > Comedy Central

The FCC has zero control over content on Comedy Central. They only have control of content for over the air broadcasts (such has CBS,NBC, etc.) NOT cable.

The network's own censors aka "standard's and practices" decide what they want to censor, generally to appease their sponsors/advertisers

Question: Does the velocity of light compound on top of the velocity of of our galaxy's movement?
Answer: Your mistake is that you are thinking of a light as a particle, while in reality, it acts more like a wave.  The ball in your example needs to be accelerated up to a speed relative to your car before it is shot out of your theoretical bowling ball cannon.  Light, on the other hand, leaves a flashlight beginning at the speed of light and it doesn't need any distance to "accelerate" to the speed of light.  Think instead of the light moving like sound, which also behaves like a wave. The sound of you honking the horn in your car reaches me at the same speed regardless of if you are driving towards me, or away from me. 

This sound comparison can bring us a step further.  A moving source of sound can display the Doppler Effect.  Even though the speed of sound isn't affected, the PITCH of the sound is, when you and the source are moving relative to one another.  Think of standing on the sidewalk as an ambulance siren goes flying buy.  You'll notice that the siren's pitch sounds higher when driving towards you, but as it flies by and speeds off down the street the pitch suddenly drops lower.  The actual pitch the siren is making doesn't change, and is actually the one you hear at the instant when the ambulance is closest to you.  If you now imagine driving in a car next to the ambulance at the same speed, the pitch of the siren would be constant.

The Doppler Effect occurs because the time it takes each wave of the sound to reach you is affected by how far away it is. As the siren is coming towards you, the waves of sound compress closer towards one another, and you perceive a higher pitch.  Since each new soundwave is being produced closer to you, it will arrive with slightly less delay than the one before it. When the ambulance is moving away from you, the sound waves are spread out more, and you hear a lower pitch. Since now, each new wave has a longer delay to get to you. 

Light does the same thing.  As you may know, the further away an object in space is, the faster it is moving away from us. (Hence why we think the Universe is expanding.) Light undergoes the same "pitch shift" in its waves based on this relative motion, except the "pitch" of light waves is really the color.  In this case, we refer to the effect we see as "redshift" since the frequency of a light is moved lower based on how fast its source is moving away from us (red being the lowest wavelength color we see.)  (we don't see this as often in the night sky, but a star racing towards us would undergo blueshift.)  There are stars that you could maybe see with the naked eye beyond the ones we see in the night sky, but the light they produce is turned infrared because they are moving too quickly away from us. 

Something I also just learned from google that I thought of writing this: UV light can be redshifted down into the visible spectrum for you to see!

Question: Why is the common cold worse in the morning and at night but usually milder during the day?
Answer: There are a couple reasons:

1. Gravity- When you're standing during the day gravity is pulling the mucus down and it gets cleared away by things like coughing. At night, you're lying down more and gravity causes mucus to pool towards the back of our throats and it's harder to get rid of that way. We then wake up with that pooled mucus still clogging our nose and increasing congestion.

2. Awareness- During the day we are thinking about work and school and family and friends and how the medicine we just took should help us. We have things to take our mind off of our cold. We have less distractions at night and the morning so it feels like the cold is getting worse.

3. Our immune system- The inflammatory response in our immune system changes at night, which causes congestion and headaches to get worse.

So it's mix of physical things like gravity pooling our mucus and our immune system having different functions at night, but it's also a mental thing as we are constantly thinking about how our cold is getting worse.

Question: What is the difference between Drive, D2, and D3 in a car and how should they each be used?
Answer: Gears on a car are tricky.  The power of the engine is the same regardless of what gear you are in, the difference is power vs speed.  Think of a bicycle.  At one far end of the spectrum there's low gear where you peddle and peddle but never really go anywhere.  It's mostly used for going up hills.  Then there's high gear, where it's very hard to peddle but the bike can go super fast if it's already moving.  It's the same in a car.

Low gears are for when you are starting to move.  As you have more and more momentum the car is no longer so difficult to get moving so you want to use more of your engine to make the car go faster.  So you shift into a higher gear.

An automatic transmission does that for you.  But it makes some assumptions and those additional setting are for when the assumptions are not true.

When you tow a trailer the weight of your car is well outside the normal range.  An automatic transmission does not know this and will select the wrong gear as a result.  So you put it in D3, this tells the transmission not to shift into 4th because the car is to heavy for 4th to ever be useful.

D2 limits the car to second gear.  Most commonly this is used when the car is stuck (so the wheels spin fast but the car is not moving).  It's also used in winter climates to slow down (it's easier to maintain control of the car when engine breaking vs using the breaks).

Most people can drive an automatic for the entire life of the car and never use D2 or D3, and some newer cars don't even have them.

Question: What is the Hillary email scandal and what is taking the investigation so long?
Answer: The Secretary of State is an employee of the US Government.  All US Government employees must follow specific records retention rules, for historians and to keep their official actions "on the record".  The training for employees is clear, but Ms. Clinton, a lawyer, decided not to follow it.  She knew that folks who were still mad at her from her time as First Lady would want to dig up dirt and embarrass her, thereby embarrassing the US.  (She was probably right.) She decided that if she ran her own email server, where she alone had total control of data retention, she could delete anything that in hindsight turned out to be embarrassing.  This would protect her political career, and also protect the US (arguably the job of the Secretary of State).  When Congress threatened to hold hearings and ordered her to preserve all records, she and her lawyer went through all the email on the server and decided what was important "government records" and what was "personal".  They then turned the records over to the Dept of State and "erased" the server, in hopes of destroying all the evidence.  The FBI employs smart people to do data forensics, and perhaps they can "undelete" the emails not turned over to the Dept of State.  Should that happen and should there be government business in the deleted emails, then Ms. Clinton will be in some trouble.  Those are **really big IFs**.  Suppression of evidence under subpoena from Congress is a federal crime, and you can go to jail.  Her lawyer, and the IT guy, are also potential criminals; but that's much less likely.  All in all, the whole thing is not that likely to be a crime, but the optics look bad for someone running for President.

Question: In American football the ball is held in a players' hand for most of the game, then why is it called football?
Answer: All the codes of football - American, association (soccer), Australian, rugby, Gaelic - descend from the same sport (called football). Well, it wasn't really a single sport, it was a game that'd have slightly different rules from town to town, some which allowed people to carry the ball and others that didn't, but the idea was roughly the same: two teams trying to get a ball from one end of a field to the other into a designated area. To make it so that people from different areas could play each other, different codified rules were drawn up in the 19th century, resulting in the various codes, and they've gone through changes since then.

American football is a later development being an offshoot of rugby, which has more kicking, but does involve a lot of carrying.

Question: When rock climbers use the hardware to climb and they nail them into the side of the mountain, are they retrievable or lost after use?
Answer: There are three main types of hardware used.

**Pitons** are hammered in, and left there.  You can't re-use old pitons that you find, because they suck, and may have started to work their way out from freeze-thaw.  In any case, almost nobody uses them anymore.

**Bolts** (with hangers) are permanent fixtures.  They are re-useable, but they are drilled into the rock.

**"Trad" protection** is temporary, and consists of things that get jammed into cracks in such a way that falling won't pull them out.  This includes cams, hexes, nuts, and a couple varieties of specialty hardware.

EDIT: I forgot that pitons are still used in "aid climbing", where one actually puts weight on the gear, rather than using it only to protect against a possible fall.  I don't know anybody who does it; I suspect that aid climbing is sufficiently rarified as to fall into the "hardly anyone" category.  :-)

Question: A Women's Studies degree. (Seriously replies only)
Answer: As far as I'm aware it's essentially a specialized history (possibly also political science) degree.

Like many degrees (history in general, political science, art, theater, sociology) there isn't a huge market looking explicitly for it, but simply completing a degree that requires research and writing (like this one and others I mention) is valuable to many organizations which mostly just want smart people they can easily train to do some job.

It's not the best way to get a job, but liberal arts degrees are rarely praised for how easy they are to get jobs with.

Question: Why do some viruses look like robots?
Answer: Are you talking about the ones that look like spiders? The "claws" attach them to the cell and the "head" contains the infectious nucleic acids. The "mouth" injects the infectious material into the cell.

Question: How does water get from its source to coming out of my taps?
Answer: Here is how it is done where I'm from.

Pumps pull water from wells around the region, we have about 10 to serve a population of about 18k.

As the water comes out of the wells it is mixed with chlorine to help clean it.

The pressure from these pumps feeds the water to what's called a Lift Station. These lift stations are basically large pumps which pump the water uphill to tanks on higher ground than the rest of the region.

Because some of our wells have arsenic in them the lift stations pump that water to an arsenic treatment plant first. After getting treated for arsenic the water then makes it's way to the tanks.

Once the water is in the tanks gravity takes over. Pipes carry the water downhill to homes and businesses. This is the source of pressure people get when they open their tap.

Question: What is the difference between Stalinism, and Trotsky-ism?
Answer: Okay, So this is the story of communism.

**Marxism**
In the beginning there was Carl Marx and Friedrich Engels. They were German philosophers who were concerned about the plight of the working class man. The wrote books called The Communist Manifesto and Capital where they explained how a few rich people, the bourgeoisie, owned all the factories and mines. They then forced the poor working class people, the proletarians, to work in these places for low wages and exploited that work to make profit.

Marx thought that the profit made should belong to the workers, as they're the ones doing all the work, it's not fair that just because someone happens to be born into a rich land-owning family that they get all the profit of these other people's works.

So Marxism is the theory that there will eventually be a worker's revolution, where the workers will be fed up with being exploited, and take back what is theirs. This will lead to a Socialist society where the workers, as cooperatives, will own the "means of production" (factories, mines etc) and work not for the purposes of gaining Capital, but for satisfying human needs.
Eventually Marxism thinks that this socialist society will transform into a communist society, which is a stateless society were everyone is the same and everything is commonly owned, and freely available to those who need it.

**Marxism–Leninism**
Vladimir Lenin liked Marx's theories but and started considering how they could be applied to Russia, where he was born. He thought that there was no way for communism to come about by gradual reformist means, and thought that their definitely had to be a revolution. So he started considering how such a revolution would actually work in real life, and how it could lead to Marx's worker-controlled society. He had this idea of a "Dictatorship of the proletariat". This would mean that the state would be run by direct democracy via councils called Soviets. These soviets would be made up of representatives of factory workers, etc, and would vote together as basically a parliament.

This dictatorship was supposed to be there to help implement the socialism stage of Marx's theory and eventually it was supposed to basically dissolve as the society moved towards the communist stage.

**Trotskyism**

Leon Trotsky was an important figure in the Russian revolution. He thought that it was impossible to have a single communist country, and it would be necessary to spread revolution around the world. This was called "Permanent revolution". Trotsky was most concerned about what we call "Third World" countries, ie countries who had not yet established an advanced capitalist system. He thought it was important to spread revolution to these countries before capitalism took a foot-hold. He also worried that Russia as an independent communist country wouldn't be able to hold-out against the capitalist forces of the rest of the world combined and he saw Permanent revolution as the only way communism could survive.

**Stalinism**

Joseph Stalin was elected to the position of General Secretary in 1922, at the time this wasn't considered the top spot in the hierarchy of the communist party, however when Lenin died in 1924 Stalin managed to get more and more power and became the effective leader of the communist party. Stalin thought the opposite of Trotsky, he saw that communist revolutions in other European countries such as Germany had failed and he thought the best plan was for Russia to consolidate its position, and become stronger, then they could worry about other countries. He called this "Socialism in One Country". He planned to make Russia stronger through what were called Five Year Plans, which were plans that set about very rapid industrialisation. First he launched "collectivization" which grouped farmers together into large collective farms which was to help improve the efficiency of the farming system. Next he focused on increasing industry, etc.

The high amount of centralization in Stalinism however basically lead to near totalitarianism and a "cult of personality" around Stalin. This lead to various purges of other communist leaders when Stalin wasn't getting what he wanted, and really the whole thing ended unpleasantly. "Stalinism" is basically what alot of Westerns imagine when they think of communism. When Stalin died Nikita Khrushchev issued what was called "Destalinisation" which removed things like the Gualgs (Forced Labour camps) and re-named places such as Stalingrad.


It also should be noted that Trotsky was exiled by Stalin, they were bitter enemies. Trotsky thought Stalin's all-powerful political class had become a sort of bourgeoisie of its own, controlling the workers from above for its own goals. Trotsky wanted to bring the communist party back to its roots as a Workers Collective, where the workers had the power, and weren't bossed around by the all-powerful leadership.

Question: How did white men come to be dominant on earth?
Answer: It helps to start by asking, "Why did Eurasians become so dominant on Earth?" Because the history of civilizations in Europe, Mesopotamia, South Asia, and China are very, very similar; even if you were looking at the facts about these four regions in 1700, you might not be certain that the Europeans were going to dominate the world, and you would have to be very clever to predict it in 1400.

Basically, the Eurasian landmass is oriented East-West, at (mostly) temperate latitudes, with a large number of rivers running through floodplains.  This meant that any plant or mammal that could be domesticated anywhere in Eurasia could be introduced along an entire band of Eurasia that shared the climate suitable to raising that plant/animal.  As a result every river valley in Eurasia quickly had the endowment of domesticated species it needed to support intensive (for the stone age) agriculture, which lead both to a population explosion and to the first civilizations.  Specialization and urbanization lead to more advances, which can be shared more and more easily as time goes on, because the expanding agricultural civilizations start to form an unbroken band of settlement from the Mediterranean to the Indian Ocean, and soon this band connected up to Chinese civilization via land and sea routes, and expand deeper into Europe. This not only meant that these were very technologically and culturally sophisticated societies, but that they were pretty experienced when it came to trading with one another, fighting one another, converting one another, and infecting one another. This last point is especially important - Eurasians civilizations kept reaching points where high population density and interconnected trading networks caused wave after wave of epidemics, carried by humans, their domestic animals, and rodents, which would spread back and forth across all Eurasia... but then people would start to develop childhood immunities, people would learn (medically, culturally) how to slow the spread, survivors would pass on genetic adaptations, and population would start growing all over again.

The inhabitants of the Americas and sub-Saharan Africa didn't have the same advantages.  They knocked themselves out trying to domesticate different species, but they didn't spread as well from North to South.  The growth of agriculture was slower, the growth of urbanization and specialization were slower, the development of indigenous writing systems was slower, and as a result of a slower progress towards the Eurasian-style developments overall, there was no chain of overlapping literate urban civilizations to spread developments.

So it would be clear that if anyone dominated the Earth, it would be Eurasians.  [Edit: I left out a transition here which might be obvious. So, of all the Eurasian civilizations, what would make the Europeans different?] There are three essential arguments as to why this is, which may all be true to different degrees:

1. Most societies in the world, from hunter-gatherer tribes to the oldest of literate, urban civilizations, tend to have a fairly powerful clan structure.  For complicated reasons, the Christian church and above all the Western (Roman Catholic) Christian church applied itself aggressively to policies that ended up taking apart this clan structure.  Less clan loyalty seems to permit the development of some institutions we consider modern.

2. Before the 20th century and to a large extent even today, *water* was the main thing that held societies together, rather than dividing them.  Moving goods overland is *incredibly, incredibly expensive*, before modern roads, rail-roads, and the use of fossil fuels in transport. The number of rivers, the amount of coastline, and the short distances involved in some important routes put Europe in a unique position.

3.  Finally, and possibly most importantly, was European disunity.  People disagree about why, but for whatever reason, Europe has never been under the military/political control over a single political entity for more than a year or so at a time since civilization started to spread beyond the Mediterranean basin.  This had an enormous consequence: no sovereign in Europe had a veto over any sort of ideology, social policy, or other project.  This wasn't the case, for example, in China: the Chinese had the technology and the resources to send fleets to the Americas in the fifteenth century, but they intentionally abandoned the maritime exploration project because it was a project controlled by one court faction that the rival faction desired to undermine and discredit as soon as they gained power.  In Europe, on the other hand, Columbus was dismissed by multiple heads of state before finally, the Spanish decided to take a gamble on his expedition.  Other European explorers did the same thing (moving from state to state until they found someone who was interested), as did the metaphorical explorers of the intellectual world, like Giordano Bruno, Luther, Descartes, and so on.  

(A final, and older, theory was that the form of European feudalism was somehow uniquely advantageous to the growth of the industrial revolution.  Others don't think feudalism had direct economic effects, but do think it was important either to the long-term political disunity of Europe, or to the breakdown of the clan system. But this is long enough already.)

So the geographic details of the Eurasian continent meant that Eurasian civilizations started developing sooner and more rapidly, and their interconnection allowed them to develop all the attributes of civilization much more quickly by communicating with one another. It was bound to be a Eurasian culture, if it were anyone.  For unclear reasons (but I have provided some likely factors above) the Europeans hit multiple stages first - they arrived in the Americas, millions of indigenous people died of Eurasian diseases they had never experienced, they began regular trading missions across the Atlantic and around the two capes, and so on and so forth. Once the Europeans had a lead in empire-building and various forms of intellectual life, the advantages started compounding over time.

Question: How do peepholes work?
Answer: So basically the peephole is fitted with a special type of convex lens, some call it a fish hook lens that takes a wide view on one side and condenses it. By nature a lens takes light rays and creates a fake image or real image depending on distance and other factors. The reason you are able to see clearly is because the light rays are actually intersecting on your side whereas for the guy on the outside, they aren't so the result is a distorted and blurry image.

Question: On some electronic devices, it will say something like "16GB of internal, expandable to 32GB" with a microSD card. Why the cap?
Answer: It's likely because they didn't bother writing the software to index to that much memory.


Meaning, on any given operating system it takes some thought as to how to store things in memory and get them back our again.  It's a bit more complicated than just putting someone in a bin and getting it back out.  


It's likely that they simply didn't bother writing the software to use more than 32GB

Question: Why is CNN perceived as a bad network?
Answer: CNN has a 24-hour news channel, and in order to get the ratings necessary to justify its existence, it has to do more than just repeat major headlines every ten minutes. So they try to find whatever they can to fill time and entice people to tune in multiple times a day for more than just a few minutes. What this means, though, is that they often have to stretch to find enough "news" to fill their time, and then their anchors have to talk about it, even if it's completely boring, uninteresting, and ridiculous. And they do this so much that it starts becoming habit to just blurt out stuff about a news story because they're afraid of having nothing to say and having dead-air. So despite the fact CNN has some good news anchors and often does a decent job of reporting, there are too many instances of gaffes, mistakes, and ridiculousness for people to take the whole network seriously. And it gives comedy shows enough material to make great jokes at their expense.

Question: Why do voices and some instruments vibrato?
Answer: Why?

Vibrato adds a lot of warmth to a musical note. By very slightly fluctuating your pitch, you are able to include more audio frequencies than just the single note's frequency by itself. So, the note you're projecting sounds a lot louder, warmer, fuller, etc.

Also, vibrato is a clever way for many singers to slightly "auto-correct" their pitch. If you're slightly flat or sharp at the beginning of a longer note, you can use vibrato to sort of "shimmy" your voice into the right pitch before anyone really notices.

Some people just have a great natural vibrato in their singing voice. Maybe they learned it as a kid by imitating other singers and unknowingly practiced it, but generally, it's a skill that's taught just like any other aspect of playing an instrument.

With most musical instruments, they start teaching vibrato techniques as an intermediate-level skill.

Question: The Legend Of Zelda
Answer: So basically, three goddesses. Din, the Goddess of Power, Nayru, the Goddess of Wisdom, and Farore, the Goddess of Courage. These are the three sacred goddesses who created the land known as Hyrule (and Lorule, technically.) So these goddesses, after creating Hyrule, the Godesses left behind a physical manifestation of themselves, known as the **Triforce**. Each piece, or triangle, in the Triangle represents one Goddess. Therefore, one triangle represents Courage, (Farore), another represents Wisdom, (Nayru), and finally Power. (Din.) Whoever touches the Sacred Triforce will have one wish granted to them. **However.** In order to make a valid wish onto the Sacred Triforce, one must contain an equal balance of Power, Wisdom, and Courage. If not, the pieces of the Sacred Triforce will split, and the piece which best represents the person who made the wish, will be the only piece they posses. When this happens, the other two pieces will flock to the people that best represent them. So what happened in the game, is that Ganon (who didn't posses an equal balance of Power, Wisdom, and Courage) attempted to make a wish on the Sacred Triforce. The Triforce split, and since Power mostly represents Ganondorf, the triforce of Power was imprinted on his hand. So the Triforces of Wisdom and Courage were gone. The Triforce of Wisdom typically belongs to Zelda, and the Triforce of Courage typically belongs to Link. So that's why in Ocarina of Time they made such a big fuss over the Triforces imprinted on their hands. 

Whew, sorry for the long explanation. If I missed anything just tell me!

Question: Why does a cold feel worse in the morning when you wake up?
Answer: Mucus pooling in your head. Once you're upright it will start to drain out and your symptoms will diminish. Try sleeping on an incline (e.g. using a husband pillow) and it may mitigate some of the morning effect.

Question: Why does mail polish dry quicker on false nails as opposed to natural nails?
Answer: Nail polish (as well as many paints) dry by the solvent evaporating. The surface should not affect this drying time. I bet if you did a test where you painted a fake and real nail simultaneously you'd find they dried at the same time.

Question: how is "Buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo." A correct sentence?
Answer: First, it's "Buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo buffalo buffalo Buffalo buffalo." The capitals are important.

Buffalo has three meanings in American English; the adjunct noun "Buffalo" is the city in New York, the noun "buffalo" is the plural and singular name of the American bison, and the verb "buffalo" means "to  outwit or confuse". 

The sentence itself uses some trickery in order to remain grammatically correct. It uses two clauses in grammar, the reduced relative clause and the restrictive clause, that allow it to go without commas or joining words. 

The sentence means that the Buffalo buffalo (the bison in the city of Buffalo, New York) are intimidating other bison in their city through the use of bullying, and are in turn being bullied back.

A more accurate sentence might be; "Buffalo buffalo, that Buffalo buffalo buffalo, buffalo Buffalo buffalo." Or "Bison from the city, that bully bison from the city, are being bullied by Bison in the city."

Question: How to calculate how high will the sea level rise because of global warming...
Answer: The Earth is a geoid, not a sphere. Bringing this up means I am telling you that the math is really beyond ELI5. Another way to say it is that the Earth is an oblate spheroid, fat at the middle.

The calculation will involve the expansion of the sea water in the oceans as the temperature rises. This is part of the volume of the oceans which fill the low places of the Earth. Ocean depth ranges from miles deep at the trenches to zero at the beach. All of this water will expand with rising temperatures.

It is simpler to look at the geological record, the old bathtub rings. The ocean has been higher before but never covering Mt. Everest. Yes Mt. Everest is old seabed. But that is another story. There is a range of sea levels depending on how much ice is frozen at the poles. The sea level will never rise above that achieved when all the polar ice is melted. This has happened in the past.

Question: The Sects of Different Religions
Answer: There are people who think god is the sun in the morning.  They don't play with people who think god is the moon at night.

Question: How do Nyquil and other sleep aids work?
Answer: NyQuil is not a sleep aid. ZzzQuil is a sleep aid, while Nyquil is intended to reduce pain, fever, cough, and histamine response.

NyQuil does have a side effect of drowsiness due to the action of diphenhydramine that binds to the histamine H1 receptor in the brain and acts as an inverse agonist. This means it binds to the receptor but does the opposite thing. The doxylamine in ZzzQuil is also an antihistamine which acts on the H1 receptor.

Do not take NyQuil just for the sedative effects, there is a bunch of other stuff in it that you shouldn't be taking just because you want to feel sleepy.

Question: Why is the 2 party system so dominant in US politics? Will it change in the foreseeable future?
Answer: The two party outcome is pretty much unavoidable in a "first past the post" system, and pretty much unavoidable when you have a small number of seats being contested (in this case, 1).

CGP Grey to the rescue:

_URL_0_

Question: How exactly does a capacitor work?
Answer: A capacitor is very simple. It is 2 conductive plates, with an insulator between them. If you push electrons onto one plate, they will repel electrons from the other. But as electrons have moved on to one plate, that plate will have a negative charge. As electrons have been removed from the other, that will have a negative charge. This means that the device can store electric charge.

So, when you connect it across a voltage that is changing, that charge will flow in to the capacitor as the voltage rises, and back out again as it falls. This creates a smoothing effect. Another similar use is 'decoupling'. Digital circuits use bursts of current. By placing a capacitor right beside the power connections to a chip, that capacitor provides those bursts, and is steadily recharged from the devices power supply.

You can also use them for timing. You connect the capacitor to a supply, through a resistor. The resistor allows current to flow into the capacitor slowly, charging it up. You can then measure that voltage, and do something when it reaches a certain voltage.

Question: Why is gamma radiation (or, all type of radiation) so dangerous to living things?
Answer: This might be a bit long-winded but bear with me, the first part is just to provide some background: 

There are basically 3 types of radiation that people are commonly exposed to, they are called alpha, beta and gamma/XRay (these technically aren't the same, they consist of the same particles but are spit out from different parts of the radioactive atom, we'll consider them together for this though). They differ based on what particles they consist of, and this helps us determine how much energy they have. If you're interested in the details, alpha radiation consists of particles containing 2 neutrons and 2 protons (basically a helium nucleus without electrons), beta radiation most commonly consists of electron particles (though it can also be positrons - a discussion for another time) and gamma radiation/x-ray is made up of electromagnetic waves (photons) and is most commonly the highest energy type - which is what makes it more dangerous than the others. (As a side note, there are other types of radiation, i/e/ neutron radiation which is basically just neutrons flying around, but you wouldn't commonly be exposed to that unless you like hanging around leaky nuclear reactors).


The reason the radiation is dangerous to humans is because all three types stated above are classified as "ionizing radiation". That means that when these particles hit other particles they do so with enough energy that they can basically knock off electrons and change those particles from neutral atoms/molecules into ions/charged molecules. This can be a big problem in the human body for a couple of reasons. First of all, changing the charge of a molecule can change the way it behaves as well as change what its able to bind to. For example, if you hit a strand of DNA you could make it so that the DNA breaks or folds in weird directions because the atoms that make it up can no longer bind together in the same way. 

The second, and probably more important reason, is that when ionizing radiation hits water it can create a particle called a hydroxyl radical which is basically an oxygen atom bound to a hydrogen atom with one less electron than its supposed to have. These particles are EXTREMELY reactive, and they actually react in ways that create a chain reaction causing more of these radicals, and other radicals that all fall into the category called **reactive oxygen species** to form. When these reactive oxygen species come in contact with other molecules, like those in DNA, they wreak absolute havoc and can cause those molecules to break down or change structure. Unfortunately for us, or rather people who come into contact with lots of radiation, humans are about ~70% water. This means that theres a whole lot of water for that radiation to hit and change from that nice neutral compound that we require to live into evil greedy radicals that will break everything in sight. The body has some protective mechanisms in place to help neutralize small amounts of reactive oxygen species before they cause too much damage, which is why small amounts of radiation are normally tolerable. However, the DNA damage caused by radical formation and reactions after exposure to higher than recommended amounts of radiation are the most likely cause of radiation-induced cancer.


Sorry for the long response but I hope that answers your question!

Question: Why do all bubbles eventually burst?
Answer: All other potential reasons aside:

Evaporation and surface tension will get any bubble that survives the other effects. A bubble is a very thin layer of liquid, and holds its shape with surface tension. 

When you blow a bubble and it pops off the stick, all the bubble molecules are bound to each other. Each molecule pulls on its neighbors, and their neighbors pull on their neighbors, so on. Eventually everything's just holding itself in place by little tiny pulling. 

Now, once you break even one of those bonds, it all falls apart. 

As the liquid bubble just floats around, it's getting a lot of heat, and air flow, passing over its surface. This slowly evaporates the liquid, putting more and more strain on the bonds. Eventually they snap. The same happens in the cold, though that's because the cold begins to freeze the liquid and break the bond.

Question: Why/when did we start calling Emoticons Emojis?
Answer: They're actually different! 

Emoticons are ~technically~ just these: :)  :(  < 3  etc. Made **just** with punctuation symbols. Some software **may** convert those symbols into pictures...but there is no defined standard.  < 3 might become a heart, it might stay a less than three. 

Emojis have a defined standard in Unicode (the big rulebook of how computer treat and keep track of text). So if your computer supports full unicode, and it gets told to show character number U+1F618, it should show a smoochy emoji face.

Question: Why can't I run fast in my dreams?
Answer: It's a very common thing for people to experience in their dreams, and we don't really know why (dreams are not very well understood at all).

One possible explanation I've read before, however, is that your sense of how fast you are moving is dependent upon sensory input which your brain is not receiving (for example, seeing objects "moving" past your vision at an increased speed).

When you're in REM sleep (the periods of sleep associated with dreaming which also features the most frantic activity in the brain), parts of your brain responsible for receiving sensory information picks up on the chaotic subconscious "noise" going on elsewhere. The brain then has to interpret that information into something that makes sense to your conscious self.

So say your brain gets phony information that says your muscles are moving in a manner consistent with running, so that's what you experience in "conscious" reality of the dream. However you aren't getting other information associated with running (your breathing and heart rate hasn't increased, you don't feel the ground beneath you, your vision isn't seeing things moving relative to you at an increased rate etc, which is all consistent with being still or slow). So the brain translates this as "I'm running, but also still", which is what you experience.

Question: Why do car batteries last a long time, but go flat if you leave the lights on over night?
Answer: It's a rechargeable battery. When the engine is running, the alternator is able to use the power from the gasoline engine to recharge the battery. If the engine if off, the alternator is off, and the battery drains without being recharged.

Question: Why do professional fighters "hug"? Is that any kind of defense? Does that have something to do with any rule?
Answer: I think you're referring to the clinch.  In most forms of karate, the clinch is a position from which you perform a lot of throws or strikes (such as knees to the head, or elbows to the head).  In boxing, it is a defensive move to make sure that you do not get an uppercut or hook to the face.

Question: Why do we blink in response to loud sounds we anticipate?
Answer: A loud, sudden noise would indicate something has fallen, exploded, or occurred that could possibly cause you harm, many of times from shards or debris.  Your eyes are delicate, and that's your body's response to keeping your eyesight functioning as well as possible - which was even more essential to surviving and thriving in earlier humans.

Question: How do physicists know that time exists?
Answer: Thought experiment: if suddenly everything in the universe stopped moving, no atoms smashing into each other, no synaptic exchange in our minds -- would time still be moving? 

Probably not. Time is just a way to measure change. A label for motion.

Question: What make heart muscles different from leg muscles, et al. so that they never get fatigued?
Answer: Practice. Repetition. The heart muscles are accustomed to their regular activity -- they've been doing that all their life, and although it doesn't seem like much of a rest to us, they get a bit of rest between each and every beat.

Heart muscles do fatigue when they're asked to do more than normal. When your heart rate increases for some time, or when your blood pressure increases for some time... this is your heart working harder than normal, and it will fatigue.

Your leg muscles just aren't used to the kind of regular work that the heart muscles do.

Question: Why is a repetitive motion, such as drumming a finger on the table, annoying for others but not for ourselves?
Answer: Those type of actions are about soothing or entertaining yourself. You get positive feedback from the noise or motion. Other people just get an annoying click, tap, or track suit rustling as you bounce your leg up and down in 3rd period noise. Great for you as it works out your nerves, not for others because it's just a noise or motion.

Question: Why do people like to lean backwards in a chair to just before the point of tipping over?
Answer: When you lean back in your chair you change your center of gravity. At the point just before falling forwards or backwards you are perfectly balanced over the central part of your body. This makes us feel centered, balanced, and grounded. So ultimately we are chasing the feeling of being stable when we'll most likely end up flat on our backs.

Question: Why is the new World Central Airport Dubai expected to be the world's busiest airport? How and why does Emirates need 150 Airbus A380s? How and why are these Middle Eastern airlines so much more massive than Chinese airlines?
Answer: Location, location, location.

Dubai is more or less between the most populous parts of Europe and Asia. It's also located in a good spot on the Persian Gulf, a tremendously busy area for shipping. In addition, it's considered to be one of the more stable countries in the region, and the government is *extremely* committed to attracting foreign investment.

The DWC is situated in a nearly perfect spot to take advantage of accelerating business in the developing world. The government has made massive investments in infrastructure, including the airport and container port, in the hopes that if they build it, shipping will come. And it seems to be coming.

Source: worked for a freight forwarder that flew a lot of cargo through DWC and DXB.

Question: According to my understanding, at some point in the future (because of the rate of expansion of the universe), the earth and many other planets will lose the ability to "detect" the big bang....
Answer: I think what you may be referring to is the continual red shifting of the cosmic microwave background radiation.

Before I go any further an honest question.  Should I explain this? or *explain it like you're five*, because this isn't really the kind of question a five year old asks.

Question: Why did US Congress pass a law to ensure all helium in the US National Helium Reserve is sold by 2015? What benefit does this have?
Answer: In 1995 We had gathered a stockpile of over 1 billion cubic meters but had also racked up a debt of $1.4 billion doing so. The law was not to sell off all stockpiles, it was to start selling off the stockpile until that debt was covered. It was all part of a plan to privatize the harvesting of helium and get the control of it out of government hands.

Question: How does hacking work?
Answer: There are countless different techniques used for hacking, so there's no way to explain everything, but I can try one. One of the most common techniques used in hacking is called a buffer overflow, which exploits a poorly-written piece of software by telling it to alter parts of the computer's memory in ways that it shouldn't.

Let's try an analogy.

Suppose you have a whiteboard. The whiteboard gets used for two separate things. The left half of the whiteboard is a list of names of race cars, and the right half of the whiteboard is a shopping list. Unfortunately, the person in charge of the whiteboard is a little slow to learn and forgets to keep these separate...

Suppose the whiteboard maintainer also has a prankster friend, who tells him that a new race car just came out called the "ULTRA-MEGA A-2000 FRX DEATH RAY". This is a very long name for a race car, much longer than the maintainer person is used to having to write, but they try anyway. As they are writing the name on the board, they run out of room at "ULTRA-MEGA A-2000 FRX", hitting the border between the race car space and the grocery list. But remember, this person is bad at following the rules, and they end up writing "DEATH RAY" on the right-hand side of the whiteboard, right underneath the shopping list.

Later on, someone else in charge of actually buying the groceries mistakenly buys a death ray, not knowing any better because it was on their shopping list.

The prankster friend is the hacker, the person using the whiteboard is the poorly-written software, the whiteboard itself is the computer's RAM (memory), and the person buying groceries is the computer's processor.

Question: the concept of the dark web. I understand that you need certain software etc, but is it like the regular net? Do you just type in wed adresses, and is there a dark google or something? [Other]
Answer: The dark web refers to anything that can not be gotten to by any common web search engine. This includes a lot of networks that is not connected to the regular Internet such as banking networks, government networks, medical networks, military networks, private home networks, etc. There is also a lot of big sites with not much interesting in them that the search engines do not bother indexing. There are tons of wikipedia clones out there that is just skipped by the search indexers. And what about _URL_0_ with its huge data storage that itself contain more data then is available on the rest of the "white" web? And then there is private storage hosting services like Dropbox and Google Drive. Everything is available on the Internet but not in a public fashion. This also include your private facebook images and your reddit DM messages. So the dark web is huge and contains a lot of things that is not easily available for a good reason.

There is some sites that are hidden to avoid prosecution as their content would be illegal. Of course the common web search engines do not index these. One popular way to hide your identity is Tor Onion Router which is a project to help people stay anonymous online which is helping oppressed people around the world including in China, Libya and Russia. Of course they can not distinguish between people using the service for planning demonstrations against their oppressive governments and people who want to score some weed or even child prostitution. If you have a web site hosted on Tor you get a randomly chosen web address in the .onion domain. There is no search engine for it and it only composes a tiny portion of the dark web but this is where you usually find those websites that the creators do not want you to find.

Question: If U.S. Currency isn't backed by anything, how does it hold any value?
Answer: because we all agree it has value.    

at this point, no currency is backed by anything.  not a single currency still in use that is backed by gold or anything tangible.  They exist on the credibility of their govt and society. Its convenient to have an intangible unit of trade, and as long as you have critical mass of people that agree to a common unit, it works.

Question: why do my eyes appear to 'change color' depending on my mood?
Answer: Eye color does not change based on mood. The way the eye reflects light off of the iris does though. Although it is somewhat possible over time based on light activating pigments in your eye, short and quick changes in color (like mood) is usually just an illusion.

Question: Why do objects, like my couch or a coin, feel bigger than they look if my eyes are closed?
Answer: Your hands are not 'tricked' by distance, like your eyes.
On top of that, your field of view tricks your mind into processing an object within an entire scene - a couch is viewed in the living room -  which is larger.

Question: Why is medical knowledge not part of the standard educational curriculum?
Answer: Next you will want to teach them about budgets, savings, diets, exercise and sex. It is hard enough to get them to learn the basics like greek gods, cursive and algebra I am not sure we can squeeze in your pet projects. Sorry.

Question: The Mormon religion
Answer: Basically, the Mormon (or LDS faith) believes that God is our Heavenly Father and he sent us to earth to receive physical bodies and gain experiences. Throughout history, God has sent prophets to his children to teach them his will (people like Abraham, Moses, and Noah) and that sometimes people are willfully disobedient and God will take his prophets from the earth. But that God will always restore his gospel to the earth, even after times of apostasy, when no one has God's authority to speak for him. 

Mormons believe that Jesus Christ is the son of God, sent to earth to perform the atonement and save mankind from their sins. Christ organized his church while on the earth by calling twelve apostles and making Peter the new prophet after Christ died. After Christ's death, Peter and the apostles continued to spread Christ's teachings, but once again, God took his prophet from the earth and although Christianity flourished, it lacked God's true authority, which was never passed down from Peter.

And then in upstate New York in the 1800s, a young boy named Joseph Smith was confused about all of the different christian churches that existed, wondering which was the correct or "true" church. This lead him to pray to God, and he claimed that God and Jesus appeared to him in a vision. Joseph Smith went on (through the inspiration of God) to find and translate an ancient record, the translation is known as the Book of Mormon and covers the history of ancient Israelites that sailed to the Americas and founded nations here. 

Joseph Smith was called by God to be his new prophet and organized the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, dubbed the Mormons, because of the Book of Mormon. After Joseph Smith was killed, a new prophet was called, and a line of "legitimate" prophets continues today with the current LDS prophet Thomas S. Monson.

Because the LDS church has always been headed by a living prophet, the LDS church claims legitimacy as God's "true" church, claiming authority to receive revelations from God and act in his name. 

There's obviously a lot more to it, but this is ELI5. You can find out a lot more from the LDS point of view at _URL_0_ and I'm sure that there'll be some more negative (though no less valid) views posted shortly. 

But I tried my best to give you an ELI5 explanation as described from the viewpoint of the Mormons. Seriously, this is the sort of thing that a 5-year-old would be taught. 

*edited for clarity.

Question: Orcs, goblins and Uruk-Hai. What are the differences?
Answer: An interesting question with a complex, if not interesting answer.  

Orcs were created by Melkor who was himself a sort of god.  It is thought that they were created through the capture, torture, and eventual breaking of Elves which resulted in the Orc.  Another theory is that Melkor decided to create a race himself in resemblance or in mockery of the Elves.

Goblins are in fact Orcs.  The Hobbit called the Orcs in the story Goblins, but they are one and the same.  In The Lord of the Rings, Goblins can be seen as a race of Orc that is smaller, more slender, and which live in caves.  So I suppose you can think of a Goblin as an evolution to live in a cave-like environment.  

Uruk-Hai are quite different from their cousins.  One theory is that Uruks are a crossbreed between Orcs and Humans.  As a result they have the mind and cunning of man with the strength and longevity of the Orc.  Now the interesting bit about the Uruk is that there are two species.  There is the Mordor variety and those from Isengard.  The Uruk from Mordor were not immune to the sun (much like orcs) and are more slouched.  Those from Isengard stood tall and broad, were extremely strong, almost fearless, and resistant to the sunlight.

Hope this helps!

Question: Why do porn sites/tubes have to only have 18+ girls, when in many US states and Europe the age of consent is 16 or 17?
Answer: Pornography or prostitution is usually considered a more radical life choice than simply having sex and they want people to be more mature before making such a choice. Therefore it's usually 18 for both regardless of age of consent.

Question: How were the pigeons that carried messages in the old days trained? How did they know where to go to deliver the message?
Answer: You raise the birds at the destination. You have a roost for them, let them fly for exercise, etc. Then you carry them to the place you want to send messages from. When you let them go, they fly back to their roost.

Question: I just got checked by a nurse practitioner and I looked up their schooling. Most of their programs are only 2 years online degree, how are they allowed to practice independently with so little schooling?
Answer: You must be looking up the wrong info. A nurse practitioner must first earn their registered nursing (RN) license and have a 4-year bachelor's degree in Nursing. Then they must earn a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN). Then they have to pass their certification exam. It's possible that there are accelerated 2-year programs to earn your master's degree though.

Question: Our knowledge about atoms
Answer: Tons of complex experiments. It started of with Rutherfords gold-foil experiment that revealed that atoms are largely empty space, by shooting helium nuclei to a gold foil and measuring how they bounce of. Then Bohr was able to show how it comes that each element has specific spectral lines when heated up enough. The explanation was that you had a couple of electron shells. This was later refined by further observation, showing it was all a little bit more complex.

De Broglie showed with experiments that matter is at the same time wave and particle, then Schrödinger did something called the Schrödinger equation which then lead to the orbital theory.

A device called mass spectrometer was build and with that you are able to measure the mass of nuclei by basically measuring inertia. Interestingly enough, it was found that the mass of nuclei is a whole number multiple of the hydrogen nuclei. Rutherford therefore said it was possible that nuclei are made up out of smaller particles, called neutrons and protons.

Lise Meitner and Otto Hahn later discovered nuclear fission which confirmed Rutherfords idea. Even later, with better equipment and higher energies, it was discovered that protons and neutrons are made up out of smaller things called quarks.

Question: Why is the theory of relativity so famous in pop culture? Why do so many people (of nearly all ages) know about it?
Answer: General relativity, special relativity, and mass-energy equivalency are truly revolutionary ideas.  We're talking more revolutionary to our understanding of what the universe is than saying "what if we pre-sliced the bread?" was to consumerism.  Essentially, Einstein took all of classical physics with time, matter, and spatial dependencies and turned it upside down.  Light is both a wave and a particle, time runs at different speeds and space is different sizes depending on your reference frame, mass and energy are identical, so are gravity and acceleration - at face value, these statements are nuts with what we could observe of the universe at the time.  And yet, he stated that they were true through thought experiments and mathematics, and as they became possible they were confirmed through astounding physical experiments.

E=mc2 is simply symbolic in popular culture of this scientific revolution, even if the vast majority of people don't truly understand its implications, derivations and paradigm-shifting novelty at the time it was first written down.

Question: Blackjack. No seriously, as if you were teaching your five year old child to play, from scratch.
Answer: You already have the basic rule: Closest to 21 without going over wins.

Cards are worth their value, face cards are worth 10, the Ace is worth 11 or 1, whichever gets the player closer to 21 without going over.

Because there are a lot of cards valued at 10 in the deck, a lot of the betting and hitting is based on the assumption that the card you're getting will be worth 10.

Hitting: When you say "Hit me," it means you want another card. Normally you can take as many as you want as long as you don't go over 21.

Stay: If you say "I'll stay," that means you're done taking cards. 

Bust: Busting is when you go over 21. 

Push: If your score ties the dealers score. You get your bet back.

Black Jack: When you hit 21 with the two cards you're dealt at the beginning. This is different than hitting 21 by taking extra cards because you automatically win, regardless of what the dealer gets. Many tables also pay out extra for a black jack.

Insurance: If the dealer's card shows an Ace, you can make an additional bet that the dealer has a black jack. If you're right, you get your bet back like a push. This bet is normally considered a sucker's bet.

Doubling Down: Normally you can only make one single bet right before the cards are dealt. However, after you get your first two cards you can do something called "Doubling Down." This means that you're going to double your bet, and you're going to take one more card. Most people will only double down if their cards add up to 10 or 11, because the chance of getting a 10 is high which would put you at 20 or 21.

Splitting: In addition to Doubling Down, you have the option to split your two cards into two new hands and place a second bet for the new hand. For example, if you get two Aces, those add up to 12. This is not a particularly strong hand because if you take another card, it will probably be a 10 and you'll bust with 22. Instead, you can split. Now you have two separate hands, each with their own bet. You can hit for each hand and hope you pull a 21 for both. 

Those are all of the rules I can remember at the moment. Casinos use multiple decks because it makes it harder to count cards. Card counting is when you keep track of how many face cards and how many non-face cards have been used. This gives you an idea of which cards are left in the deck and helps you determine which bets you should make.

Question: In bright light, why is it easier to shut off one eye and have the other wide open?
Answer: I'm not sure. Used to work in visual neuroscience, and this is my best guess. I'd love if someone has a definite answer though!

I think the main culprit is visual glare. Light travels in straight lines, but you get glare when light is scattered in a disorganised pattern \(usually strong light, like car headlights in rain\).

Your brain has to process everything you see, and its less work if you can see everything clearly. If you have to perceive an indistinct shape, your higher visual processing areas have to work harder. Glare from bright light will make it harder to perceive things around you.

So what I think might be going on is that glare \(which again is disorganised, scattered light\) means that you're perceiving a different pattern of scattered light from each eye. Your brain has to interpret and combine both images, which is a lot of work \(this is normally easy because they're usually the same\). Shutting off one eye \(half the signal\) means you have less work to do, and might make it easier to see.

Either that or its something really simple that I've missed, like shutting one eye makes it easier to decrease the pupil size in your open eye!

Question: why al qaeda chose to target the united states?
Answer: I'm by no means an expert on this topic, but I'll see if I can shed a bit of light on the topic.

In Al Qaeda's early years still part of the mujahideen they were actually funded by the U.S. (funneled through pakistan's equivalent of a CIA agency of course) to fight the soviets who were helping the afghani governments (who were pro soviet) tighten their grip over the region against these rebels. At the time mujahideen was pretty loosely aligned, and although they were jihadist they weren't opposed to one group or another, with the exception being the soviets. Afghanistan's government wasn't all that bad, but because it was pro-soviet the Americans didn't have any of that.

Near the end of the war versus the soviet union, the mujahideen began operations in other parts of the region, such as Israel. During a later conflict in which Iraq invaded Kuwait (ruled by the House of Saud), Bin Laden offered the King of Saudi Arabia protection against the Iraqi army through his mujahideen troops. The King refused, instead allowing U.S. protection (they wanted to secure oil fields, of course), which angered Bin Laden. He saw Saudi Arabia as an extremely sacred Islamic sovereignty and couldn't stand the thought of U.S. troops there. Bin Laden later works for Sudan, opposes peace between Palestine and Israel, and does plenty of other dickish things against other countries.

Of course Al Qaeda doesn't JUST terrorize the USA, but they are the most colourfully painted target out there. They invade sovereign countries like a rash, which allows Al Qaeda to easily recruit by justifying the repulsion of these 'foreign devils'. The USA provides a picture perfect antithesis of modesty required to condemn them by sharia standards. Furthermore, if you were to ask any run of the mill illiterate farmer's child if they could name one other country in the western world, odds are that country would be the USA, due to it's presence, both positive and negative, world wide.

Question: When does a negative personality trait become a mental problem?
Answer: There is indeed a lot of subjectivity and discretion when it comes to diagnosing mental illnesses and it's very much done on a case-by-case basis.

Unfortunately, there isn't a simple test to definitively determine whether someone is suffering from a mental illness or personality disorder; it's mostly based on the subjective judgement and analysis by a qualified professional (such as a Clinical Psychologist [PhD] or a  Psychiatrist [MD]).

Fortunately, there is a standardized manual used by these professionals—namely the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM) in North America and International Classification of Diseases (ICD) in other countries—which basically provides symptom checklists and specific definitions and requirements for every mental illness/disorder someone can be diagnosed with.

The primary criticism of these manuals (in relation to mental illnesses/disorders) is:

1. They leave a lot of room for professional discretion
2. There is a lot of symptom overlap between different mental disorders and not every patient fits neatly into one disorder classification or category
3. A lot of the mental disorders are arbitrarily defined (a panel of experts have simply decided that a particular group of symptoms should be classified as X disorder)
4. In practice, different mental health professionals will often assign slightly different (and in some cases majorly different) diagnoses to the same patient.

Anyway, the general rule of thumb is that unusual or abnormal personality traits or social behaviors do not automatically constitute a mental illness or disorder. 

In order for something to be considered worthy of the mental illness/disorder label, it basically has to be a behavior which either severely compromises one's ability to perform regular every-day activities or prevents one from developing healthy/reciprocal social relationships with other humans.

Question: Why can we recognize so many celebrities and fictional characters if the human mind is only supposed to be able to know about 200-250 people?
Answer: So the first thing you have to understand is that it's not about 'knowing who they are'. It's about maintaining a certain level of relationship with people. 

The numbers were actually 100-250 initially (150 on average) and were called Dunbar numbers named after the psychologist who studied the phenomenon later other researchers, mostly anthropologists like Bernard-Killworth doubled the number but they are not as famous. 

This however is not the same as acquaintanceship volume; people you can recognise or name nor does this include fictional characters or celebrities either.



To learn more about acquaintanceship volume click [here](_URL_2_) 

To learn more about Dunbar and his numbers click [here](_URL_0_) 

To understand more about how you recognise faces and recall people click [here](_URL_1_)

Question: Why are mixed blacks in the US considered black no matter how much they are mixed while this does not apply to other races?
Answer: The answer is all political. 

For some though, it depends on how they grow up. I had a friend who was half black but grew up with this mothers side of the family who is white. He didn't really identify as black. 

Currently its very political. Black community don't like when half black people identify with a different race. These people tend to be the victims of black on black verbal hate, calling them race traitors or uncle Toms.

Question: Where did the stereotype that Canadians are always saying "sorry" come from?
Answer: From Canadians saying sorry in places where it isn't needed.

The Prime Minister just spent a week apologizing for accidentally brushing up against some member of Parliament. It dominated their news for the whole friggin' week. That is some serious 'Sorry' energy.

Edit: typos.

Question: If child molesters or killer of children have a tougher time once in prison, why can't they lie about what they when asked by inmates?
Answer: Word gets around.  Criminal convictions are public records in most places, and it's not hard to get a friend outside to look up what a guy is in for if you're suspicious of him. A lot of people do try to lie about it, but if anyone really gets suspicious, it won't work well.

Question: How can eating half a pound of chocolate make you gain 2 pounds of fat?
Answer: >  How can eating x weight in food produce a greater number of weight gained in fat.

Fat is made up of cells, and those cells are filled with water in order for their bits to move around and function. The chocolate bar isn't going to be stored as a raw chocolate deposit in your flesh.

Chocolate is pretty complex a snack item but imagine if I was making a primative energy bar from suet or raw fat. We would take a big, jiggly portion of animal fat and break it apart into a smooth paste, then dehydrate that paste until we had a solid, soft bar. The resulting bar is much lighter than the fat from which it came and if you ate it and converted everything to fat, you would gain weight. But some of that weight is from retained water.

Question: What is a company valuation?
Answer: It doesn't mean the company has $4 billion in the bank. It means the **estimated price of the whole company** is $4B. 

Another way of putting it is, the valuation is the sum of:

* all the things the company currently owns: money in the bank, computers, office stuff, inventory, etc. This is fairly easy to calculate, but in the case of software companies it's not so important.
* all the estimated future profits of the company. This is more important but it's harder to estimate.

So if you're mega-rich and wants to buy Dropbox from its current owners, you'd have to pay about U$4 billion.

However, even if you're a fund manager you aren't allowed to spend that much money in one shot, and at this point the Dropbox owners don't want to sell everything anyway. But guessing a valuation is still useful when an investor wants to:

1. buy a part of the company or
2. more likely in this stage, increase the capitalization of the company, i.e. putting money into the company in exchange of receiving shares of the company.

So if you want to buy 0.1% of Dropbox, you'd have to pay about U$4 million.

Question: Why the cost of manufacturing products (namely electronics), go down so quickly.
Answer: Keep in mind that a lower manufacturing cost is not the same thing as a lower retail price.

1. Economics. Things are priced high when they're new because people are often willing to pay more for the "hot new thing." This is because newness has some intrinsic value and some social value. A PS3 gets its price cut in half not because it's half as costly to produce, but because once the newness has worn off, people are less willing to pay so much for it. So retailers actually cut prices to make more money!

2. Technology. Technology is advancing, in terms of processing power, manufacturing efficiency, etc. Smart people are working hard to find out how to make things more efficiently. This leads to actual decreases in manufacturing costs in many electronics, but this generally happens over the course of years, not months.

Question: Why is it that when you speed a video up, it gets higher pitched?
Answer: Sound is vibration of the air interpreted by your eardrum.

Fast frequencies are interpreted as being high pitched.  Low frequencies are interpreted as low pitch.  Speeding up a video increases the frequency of vibration relative to unsped up and raises the pitch.

Question: Why do they have to shut the subway down when there's a snowstorm, shouldn't the underground portions still be able to keep going?
Answer: For one, you need people to drive the trains. You can't keep the subways running if you tell the drivers they can have the day off. 

For two, if you shut down the mass transit, you tend to keep people home. Keep people home, and you have less of a need to have cops, ambulance drivers, taxis, etc on the street.

Question: What is happening to our bodies when we see something that makes us "cringe"?
Answer: Cringing is a form of empathy. If you see a child crying on the street because he lost his parents you feel bad, sometimes even physically, because you can imagine how it feels for the child. Empathy is our instinct to put ourself in somebody else's position. Watching a movie where something incredibly sad can make you cry. Watching a movie where something really embarrassing happens makes you cringe. It's a different reaction to the same thing, empathy.

Question: ...I saw a news story tonight where a child had a double hand transplant; as a Biochemistry major in college I struggle to understand how is this possible?
Answer: Arm transplants have happened as well, in general we haven't done a lot of limb transplants but conceptually it's just the same technology that lets us do any organ transplant plus the technique we use to reattach severed limbs in accidents. 

It's unlikely we will do any foot transplants any time soon, because the drugs you have to take after a transplant have a lot of serious side effects and most people wouldn't find the medical risks worth it for feet, or even a case where a person still has one hand. It's basically only worth the costs for a person that has no hands at all because of how debilitating that is.

Question: 4K quality (what seems to be the next step up from 1080p from what I have seen)
Answer: It's the next-gen HD resolution.  You had it right. Its not particularly important yet though as there is almost no 4K content being made, and very few things are capable of displaying 4K currently.  In 5-10 years it'll probably be much more relevant.

Question: What happens when we generate more electricity than the grid is using?
Answer: When too much electricity is being produced one of the first things done is reducing the amount of electricity used by scaling back "quick reacting" plants. Imagine angling the blades of a windmill so they aren't catching the wind anymore and supply is reduced. There aren't traditional batteries big enough to hold the amount of electricity produced by power plants. However, "non-traditional" batteries can be used. Some power plants have experimented with using excess power produced to pump water uphill or into a dam, where electricity would be "stored" as potential energy. When the energy is needed again the water is allowed to run back down the hill or out of a dam to power a turbine.

Question: How do different languages share the internet? Is there a Russian language internet, Chinese language internet, or is everything translated from one page?
Answer: No, a website will be the same no matter where you load it (usually, and not talking about region specific sites like Google.ra or even _URL_0_ (Canada)). If you search through Reddit, you will find many subreddits where people communicate in their own languages, like Russian Cyrillic or Kanji.  
  
However, some sites have built-in translation (even Instagram does) and Google Translate can translate an entire webpage, just enter the URL into it.

Question: How do people who fast/don't eat or drink for longer than usual people not die?
Answer: > Eg: like that indian bloke that didn't eat for 70 years.

Spoiler alert:  He eats just like anyone else.  He *claims* not to eat, but that claim is ridiculous.  There were two "tests" performed, but the first showed that he lost weight during the 10 days that he was being monitored, and the second test allowed him to gargle water and bathe, neither of which were sufficiently monitored to prevent him from drinking and urinating (which he also claims not to do).

In short, the claim to not have eaten in 70 years is a lie.

Question: how does someone like bill gates keep all of his money?
Answer: His net worth is largely tied to his investment holdings with Microsoft, although he more than likely has investments elsewhere. As the share price of Microsoft fluctuates daily on the market, his net worth fluctuates with it. If Microsoft has a particularly bad quarter, he publicly lost a lot of money.

Question: How are special effects (CGI) in movies created?
Answer: What kind of effects, specifically?

The eli5 version is that you use computers to animate something. There are very sophisticated programs that can help calculate exactly how those animations move to make them appear realistic. They don't draw it in frame by frame, they essentially animate all the parts and then use the computer programs to calculate how those parts should move and how quickly they should move.

Depending on how much cgi there is it can take a few days to several months to animate a few minutes. I believe Gollum took something like twenty six hours to calculate the animations for *each frame.*

If you ever wondered why you hear about a movie finishing shooting, and then it's like eight months later before it's released, now you know.

Question: what is the process of going into shock?
Answer: Paramedic student here. When we speak of “shock” we are talking about inadequate tissue perfusion- basically, for whatever reason, oxygenated blood is not reaching the patients tissues. There are 5 major types of shock- 

hypovolemic (loss of blood volume, ie, the patient is bleeding out)

cardiogenic (there is an issue with the mechanical activity of the heart pumping blood to the body), 

neurogenic (there is an issue with either the brain controlling the heart, or the electrical system in the heart itself)

anaphylactic (life threatening allergic reactions, or other adrenal issues affecting perfusion)

septic (massive systemic infections)

In pre-hospital care (when you call for a paramedic), we can manage some of these. For hypovolemic, we can give you IV fluids to replace lost blood volume, but we have to balance that with making sure theres still enough actual blood there to carry oxygen to the tissues. For septic, we give fluids as well, but in the hopes of diluting the blood- theres very little we can do in the field to actually combat septic shock. For anaphylactic shock, we can give medications to mitigate and lessen to bodies reaction to what ever triggered the event. For neurogenic shock, we try to control heart rate and BP, without letting the system crash. For cardiogenic, we try to get you to the hospital as fast as we can, cause there’s not much we can do for you in the field. 

Another issue with shock is that there’s 3 levels of shock- compensated, decompensated, and irreversible. Compensated shock is the early stage, where the patient is sweaty, pale, and has a rapid heart rate. This is the stage that is easiest to manage. Signs/symptoms can include agitation or anxiety, fast heart rate (tachycardia), fast breathing (tachypnea), nausea and/or vomiting, and a weak or thready pulse. Decompensated shock is the mid stage, where the patient becomes mentally altered (seems intoxicated, or passes out entirely), has no pulses in the extremities (but still has a carotid pulse), labored or odd breathing, and a falling blood pressure. This is the shock stage that we throw everything we have at, in order to keep the patient alive so we can get them to a doc. The last stage, irreversible shock, is just that, irreversible. If you hit that point, you’re gonna die. Medics and doctors will do everything they can, but at that point, it’s a losing battle. Patients in this stage have lost the carotid pulse, they’ll have very shallow and irregular breathing, very low blood pressure (hypotension), and they’ll be unconscious. 

Our ultimate goal, regardless of the type or level of shock, is to get you to a hospital, or ‘definitive care’ as we call it. Medics, despite all the tools, techniques, and meds at our disposal, are bandaids. We can stabilize, but it takes a doctor to fix the problem. So if you call 911, and the medic says you need to see a doc, go see one. Ideally, the medic will take you, but not every fire service does their own patient transports.

Question: Why do some brands prefer "price upon request" in magazines/advertisements instead of just telling the current price?
Answer: There are various reasons.  One of the most common is that the manufacturer prohibits wholesalers and retailers from advertising prices openly to avoid price-fixing and price wars.

Question: Why is it easier to lift living beings of say, 20kgs, than an object of 20kgs?
Answer: I'm going to speculate that you're talking about the difference between lifting, say, a four year old child and a heavy box filled with books.

Where you can grasp the object has a lot to do with it. You get a better hold on a child under the arms for the initial lift than you typically do with a giant box. Your arms can also be closer to your body where you have more leverage and strength, whereas with a large box they are farther away and more spread apart so the box doesn't topple.

Some living creatures that are heavy are also likely to help with the lift somewhat. A four year old about to be lifted will do things like wrap their hands around your neck, which distributes their weight across your body more evenly and secures them to you. Conversely, if you tried to lift a wriggling 20kg dog that was fighting the lift the whole time, you would likely drop it.

I would add that motivation is also probably a big mental factor in these lifts. If you're lifting up a four year old child, there's probably a good reason -- to comfort them, or to make them happy in some way. Lifting a box of books just doesn't bring the same sort of joy or urgency.

Question: Dinosaurs and Paleontology: How much is actual science, how much pseudoscience and speculation? Is it all just theoretical or are there undeniable truths?
Answer: First, they have found a lot of fossils:

 > In terms of the number of individual fossils there are probably countless billions. Most large Natural History Museums will have a collection of several million. However, as you probably know there will be multiple specimens for most species. For example we have lots of different fossils of T. rex, these even have names like 'Sue' and 'Jane'. The number of different kinds of fossils (species) is much less, I think the figure is a few hundred thousand. In reality there were probably many more species in the whole history of life, but many of these never left a single fossil and others have yet to be dug up! - _URL_0_
  
As for the rest, I think that the answer you are looking for is better sought in /r/askscience than it is here. You want the details, not just the short version, which, for almost all of these questions is going to be some variation on the following: There is some uncertainty, and conclusions are often carefully couched because of course, it could well be that an animal with flat teeth somehow ate meat, or that an animal that seemed to run quickly was actually sedentary. But, the conclusions are made as in any other scientific field---you look at what you know about reality, compare it to what you have, and eliminate the things that can't be true.

Question: How effective was the Great Wall of China at keeping Mongolians out of China?
Answer: The wall served two main purposes: stopping raids and providing warning of attacks. It wasn't really meant to hold back a large invading army.

It was pretty easy for nomads to raid Chinese farming villages in the north with just a few men. The wall was someone effective in deterring that because it's hard to destroy a wall with a very small force and it only takes a couple people on a wall to fight you off.

When it came to large invasions, the wall's main purpose was to provide warning and maybe slow invaders. In fact, the wall has signal towers all along it so that a warning could be sent to wherever it needed to go. The wall was too big to man with a large, permanent force that could repel an invading army, but an invading army would still either have to spend time getting through the wall or around the wall. While they were doing that, the warning signal would be making its way to the capital and/or army.

[This](_URL_0_) thread from /r/askhistorians goes into some pretty good detail.

Question: What is the difference to my body if I eat 5000 calories one day and zero the next vs 2500 for two days?
Answer: It has been suggested that the human metabolism has evolved two modes of operation, activated by calorie intake. The first is *grow mode* where plentiful nutrients are flung about the body and as suggested the body replenishes itself. The second is *repair mode.* Activated by a lack of calories, the body scavenges nutrients left behind from *grow mode,* such as from build-up on the walls of arteries. This may be a response to the failure of the hunt, when protein and calories are scarce but vitamins and minerals are still available from more plentiful vegetation.

Modern humans in developed countries may be at risk of remaining in grow mode throughout their lives and never entering repair/scavenge mode, and then die of blockages caused by years of nutrient build up.

Question: How is NSA software undetectable?
Answer: A properly designed root kit installs before the OS loads, so it controls everything the OS can see. It can perfectly disguise itself because it can block any information the OS might use to detect it.

Question: Why aren't professional body builders who take steroids arrested?
Answer: To be arrested on any kind of a drug charge requires possession or buying/selling. The fact of having taken an illegal drug is not something a person can be arrested for.

Question: The New Internet Laws
Answer: I don't know it in detail enough to write an entire explanation but from what I know they laws were written REALLY badly(Which at this point should not be a surprise) and as so broad that under them if say user43985734 submitted a copyrighted video to youtube, youtube would be the ones responsible for it. aka copyright lawyers could sue youtube and any other file sharing platform out of business.

Question: How Do Hand Warmers Work?
Answer: I'll try again.  
  
Pure powdered iron when it is oxidized or "rusts" releases heat. Yup, rusting releases heat it's just we never notice because it's the surface area of things like a car bumper are relatively small and the rust occurs slowly over time.  
  
Hand warmers are physically small but since the iron is very finely powdered the total surface area of all that iron dust is huge. So you have a lot of the "rusting" or oxidation of iron occurring and that releases heat which is noticeable.

Question: Did NASA disprove or set back global warming?
Answer: First of all, an article can link back to any trustworthy source it wants, but it doesn't mean that the article is using that source correctly. It seem to me that the article is trying to say that since CO2 is reflective, it must be cooling off the earth. Is CO2 reflective? Yes. Does it cool off the earth? Heck to the no. Sure CO2 reflects some of the heat coming to the earth, but you have to think about the heat coming from the earth.    
    **This is the ELI5 part**: Think of CO2 as a giant blanket. It'll keep some of the heat on the outside, but it will also keep a lot of the heat on the inside. When heat tries to escape the earth, it hits this blanket and keeps the Earth warm. The problem is that CO2 keeps in more heat than it reflects back into space.

Question: What makes it so that people with epilepsy cant look at rapidly flashing colors on a screen?
Answer: Rapidly flashing lights cause a sort of "short circuit" in the brain, this produces a seizure. Its usually much faster rates than a flashing screen, but neurologists do tests with flashing lights to measure your tolerance to them in a sleep study. I know this since I've had epilepsy since I was 15 (now 23) and am relatively well controlled on anti-seizure medications. Hope this answers your question. Pm me if you have more. :)

Question: Why does meningitis always seem to kill people who are college aged and otherwise healthy?
Answer: Bacterial meningitis is *extremely* deadly, able to kill in less than a day, often under 3 days. You often hear of it in college students simply because they are more exposed to the infection, as bacterial meningitis is usually transferred through saliva. Any age group can contract and die from it.

Question: If I were to write the address of where I wanted to send a letter in the "from" area, and my address in the "to" area without a stamp, where would the letter go?
Answer: Nowhere at all. The post man would pick it up, write "No stamp" on it, and put it back. Or, he might not even write anything. He would just leave it. If you did put a stamp on it, it would go to your local post office, be filed, and then sent right back with the next day's mail.

Question: Why are some of the things that the horoscope says about some signs so accurate?
Answer: They're designed that way. I'll give you a horoscope right now, you ready?

You have a great need for other people to like and admire you.  
You have a tendency to be critical of yourself.  
You have a great deal of unused capacity which you have not turned to your advantage.  
While you have some personality weaknesses, you are generally able to compensate for them.  
Your sexual adjustment has presented problems for you.  
Disciplined and self-controlled outside, you tend to be worrisome and insecure inside.  
At times you have serious doubts as to whether you have made the right decision or done the right thing.  
You prefer a certain amount of change and variety and become dissatisfied when hemmed in by restrictions and limitations.  
You pride yourself as an independent thinker and do not accept others' statements without satisfactory proof.  
You have found it unwise to be too frank in revealing yourself to others.  
At times you are extroverted, affable, sociable, while at other times you are introverted, wary, reserved.  
Some of your aspirations tend to be pretty unrealistic.  
Security is one of your major goals in life.  

That sounds pretty accurate doesn't it? Am I a psychic? 

Of course not, the above was a horoscope used in an experiment conducted in 1948 by Bertram Forer, where he gave a large number of subjects horoscopes, and asked them how accurate it was. Every single person said that the horoscope they recieved was very accurate. Then it was revealed that every subject was given exactly the same horoscope (the one above). This test has been repeated and confirmed many times, and the psychological phenomon that causes the belief is called the "Forer effect".

Question: Why is China still a developing country despite it's massive economy?
Answer: Because most of its citizens are still poor, subsistence farmers or low skilled factory workers, etc. The economy is massive but their population is ALSO massive. Their per capita GDP is about 1/7 that of the U.S.

Question: After big plane crashes, do all pilots in the world learn from them?
Answer: Yes.

In the specific case of the Air France crash, many airlines and training organisations have included "upset recovery" training, either in their initial training, or in the regular training which pilots have to do.

In more general terms, crashes are investigated by the national accident investigation authority (NTSB in the USA, AAIB in the UK, etc). They publish a report into every accident and major incident. These reports are freely available, and airlines have safety officers who will regularly review them and see if there are lessons that can be learnt that affect that particular airline.

Additionally, these investigation authorities can also include in their reports something called a "recommendation", which is exactly what it sounds like. They can be addressed to a particular body - for example, they might recommend to a national authority that a change be made to the national laws surrounding aviation, or they may suggest to an aircraft manufacturer that the procedures used in a particular type of aircraft need to be changed, or they made suggest to an airline that the airline's procedures need to change. (In the case of an airline, they can also suggest this to the national authority that oversees that airline. Unlike the investigation authority, the national authority - the FAA in the USA, the CAA in the UK, etc - can mandate that airlines make changes.) Recommendations don't have to be followed - but where they are not followed, there will be a detailed explanation of why they were not followed.

Question: How American Politics works.
Answer: Large corporations send lobbyists to bribe people in Congress and the Senate to present and vote for bills that will be profitable to them. Politcians tell their base what they want to hear in order to get elected and then just continue to pander to corporate interests, because it's very profitable for them. All the while they have the media present "issues" for people to get worked up about and generate a whole circus stage show of "left" vs "right" and create the illusion of partisanship, but behind closed doors, the money is all coming from the same corporations into the pockets of both parties. So, these bills get passed and that's how a bill becomes a law.

Question: how self driving Tesla cars navigate so well?
Answer: A lot of expensive and advanced computing systems which include multiple cameras, ultra sonic scanners, radars and a butt load of processing power.

_URL_0_ explains it best.

Question: why is plastic a good insulator?
Answer: In that specific case, it's because plastic film is non-porous. That is, it's a solid membrane that doesn't let air through. Fabric on the other hand has all these tiny holes in it between the threads (unless is is very thick, very dense, and very tightly woven) that can let air through.

Question: What exactly do economists do to "Seasonally Adjust" unemployment figures
Answer: It's pretty chill, iirc.

Step 1: Data

You want the average unemployment each year for 10 years or so, and the average unemployment during the test season for each of those.

Step 2: Ratios

In each year, figure out how much bigger or smaller it is than usual during the season. Like, if it's 1.1-1.3 times the unemployment rate for the year. Then average those to make a 10-year seasonal adjustment rate.

Step 3: Division

Divide the actual rate right now by the average seasonal adjustment ratio you made above. At this point, you're done for that data point. You have the seasonally adjusted unemployment rate. But it's boring on it's own, so..

Step 4: Comparison

Do the same for the previous seasons, going back 6 months. Feel free to vary what you define as a 'season', too - smaller seasons give more accurate results but take more work.

Step 5: Profit

Now you can see what the unemployment rate is really doing, adjusted for seasonal variables! Well, not perfectly precisely, because there's always factors that only influence the rate once, but better than just taking the rate.

Question: Why is there such a high concentration of religious conservatives in the South in the US?
Answer: The northern states were mostly farm colonies, and the southern states were mostly exploitation colonies.  Those kind of places in the world tend to be poorer, slave colonies that tend to not have had a strong secular system set up, so you get a larger amount of church control over things due to lack of qualified leadership.  Lack of secular systems and education, lead to an overall decrease in the education and knowledge base of the people, which can be more conducive to religious/fundamentalist groups.

For example, part of New England, Argentina, and other places were farm colonies.  People went there to establish institutions and become farmers and permanently live there.  So although church is important, fundamental craziness was kept in check.

Places like Mississippi, El Salvador, etc, were exploitation colonies, where rich nobility invested in heavy labor cash crops, slavery, and wanted to get their money and go home.  They had no interest in permanent institutions so they could get their money and go home.  People are kept in line with religion and other methods, but people are kept poor and uneducated and even when the colonists leave, there's no permanent institutions to run a functioning secular government, and when you have poor, uneducated, people without a functional government, churches do well in these areas.

Fast forward a few hundred years, and you still see the ramifications of farm vs. exploitation colonies, and you'll see areas of more powerful religious fundamentalism vs. more secularized areas where people tried to make a new world for themselves.

Look around the Western Hemisphere and the history of places in South and North America where there was exploitation vs. farm communities, and you'll see pretty much a corresponding level of fundamentalist religion vs. more liberal church participation in the current era.

Question: What is Socialism? And why do people think America is coming to that?
Answer: It's maybe worth saying in addition to the responses you've had, that *nobody* at all, outside the US, thinks that America is going socialist. 

That some Americans think they are, is pretty funny and the result of what Europeans, in various languages, used to call propaganda. Of course there's no such thing as propaganda in the States. That would be ridiculous.

Question: Why couldn't Verizon's network handle simultaneous voice and data until relatively recently?
Answer: That was a limitation of their non-LTE technology.  CDMA is a different technology than GSM (the radios work different) and I think CDMA was more voice optimized.  Their 3G technology was unable to handle things simultaneously - likely since data browsing wasn't as big of a priority - GSM has wider adoption and their implementation included that capability (CDMA being US only didn't care it seems).  When Verizon started to go for 4G before everyone else, they made sure their implementation included that since it was now something that they could market and since consumers demanded it.  AT & T as very particular in pointing out this difference as smartphones became more mainstream.  

It's important to remember that each company had different priorities when building their networks.  Smartphones were not as big as they were today so less priority was placed on them.

Question: What is the difference between the titles Great Britain, England and the United Kingdom and is it proper to refer to someone as English or British?
Answer: England is, well, England; Great Britain includes England, Scotland and Wales; the United Kingdom includes England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.

Question: Hindu deities, how are there so many versions of the same gods?
Answer: So, let's talk about you. You're a person, probably a student somewhere. No matter where you are or what you're doing, you're always you.

But! You're not always the same you. When you're at home with your parents you act one way. When you're at school in class, you act another way. When you're hanging out with friends you act a third way. You're still, well, *you* in all these situations, but your parents, your teachers, and your friends all have a different understanding of who *you* are based on how you act around them.

In this, *you* are the main entity, and the person that your parents know, your teachers know, and your friends know are all different manifestations of you. 

Now, scale this up to the level of Gods. There is the same divine essence, but depending on the context it may have different forms or titles. From its own point of view, it is unchanging. From the point of view of its worshippers, it might be quite different depending on the context.

And to go one step further... *everything* could be considered a manifestation of this one divine essence, just interpreting itself from different points of view in different contexts.

Question: Why did Bill Clinton remain in office after being impeached?
Answer: Impeachment just means that Clinton was officially accused of misconduct.  It does not mean that he was actually found guilty of such misconduct.  

Remember, in the US, the House of Representatives determines if the President should be put on trial.  If the House of Representatives determines that this is the case, the President is considered to have been impeached.  After that, the Senate listens to a trial and determine if the President is guilty.  Clinton was never actually found guilty by the Senate, so no punishment was carried out by them.

Question: When I plug my headphones into the microphone port, why does it work?
Answer: Headphones and microphones are remarkably similar in design. The headphone's speaker diaphragm moves in response to sound and this drives a current which moves through the cable. This is also how basic microphones are designed.

Question: What exactly is Nihilism?
Answer: In general it is the belief that there is no inherent purpose or value in existence.

Question: I have to empty my 5 gallon dehumidifier in the basement every day. Where is all that water coming from? And if I didn't have a dehumidifier where would it all go?
Answer: The water your dehumidifier produces is actually drawn from the air around it. The air contains water vapor that moves into the air from the earth around the walls and floor of your basement. Concrete absorbs water fairly easily. The water moves through it and eventually evaporates into the air on the other side.

Your dehumidifier uses a cold coil of metal that attracts the water vapor in the air to condense onto it (Similar to how a cold glass of water gets wet on the outside of the glass on a warm humid day). As the condensation builds up, it drips down into the catch basin.

If you did not have a humidifier, the water vapor would remain in the air (resulting in higher humidity), and would likely condense over time onto other items in your basement. The dampness would promote the growth of mildew and mold (both things which like to grow in damp areas) and over time become a health hazard, not to mention also possibly damaging anything stored in your basement.

As an aside... Most dehumidifiers have an outlet that you can attach a hose too. I have a hose attached to mine, which then run to the basement drain. Assuming you have a basement drain, this might be a good way to avoid having to empty your dehumidifier bucket every day.

Question: What was/is so special about the Vitruvian Man?
Answer: It connects the "natural" with an idea of "math and science".  This is significant as it represents a key concept in the renaissance - we begin to see a connection between the fabricated world of math and science and its ability to describe and model the real world.

Question: Why don't you wake up sleepwalker?
Answer: A lot of people believe if you wake them up, they'll have a heart attack or something else horrible.  These claims are overstated.  A normal healthy person is very unlikely to have anything bad happen to them.

It will probably confuse or disorient them.  Depending on how they react, they might try to defend themselves and fight you or they might injure themselves before they're aware of what they're doing.  The best case scenario is probably to guide them back to bed.

Question: Upgrading PC and I don't understand what parts my motherboard can handle. I've never built a PC before and I don't understand a lot of the terms
Answer: You need to shop for a socket AM2 Cpu and DDR 2 ram.   I wouldn't spend too much on a video card because you are most likely going to be bottlenecked by whatever Cpu you use.

Question: What can the military do if the president attempts a hostile takeover?
Answer: How would the president conduct a hostile takeover without the military? Also a takeover of what?

Question: Why are jokes against women considered "sexism" or "misogyny" but jokes against men considered funny and "feminism"?
Answer: Largely for the same reason that people think it's funny to ridicule the president or rich bankers but may get a bad taste in their mouth if your jokes mock homeless people. Or more generally, why *good* satire punches upwards, mocks those with power and privilege, rather than than going after those without.

But most of the examples you mention aren't really jokes, they're not just attempts at being funny for the sake of being funny. They're (sarcastic or snarky) social commentary. They're part of a debate. They try to make a point about gender equality. They're responses to things that happened, to ways in which men react to discussions of feminism or accusations of sexism. They're not just intended as jokes.

What point would a "female tears" mug make? Would it just be a joke for the sake of being funny, or would it present some kind of social commentary, make some sort of political point? Or would it just be lashing out, because your feelings were hurt by the "Male Tears" mug?

Question: How does one get college scholarships and how do they work?
Answer: There are multiple kinds of scholarships.

Many scholarships are applied for. If you google "scholarship search" it will pop up several tools that will help you locate scholarships that you may qualify for. These require you to fill out applications and say why you deserve the scholarship, but they can be quite helpful.

Some scholarships are automatically awarded, either because of need or merit. If you are in financial need, scholarships are sometimes offered.  If you have incredibly good grades and test scores, some schools may offer you a scholarship as a way to entice you to go there.

Question: Why does checking your credit score lower it?
Answer: Merely checking your score for personal reasons does **not** lower it.  That's what's known as a "soft" check and it harmless.

When your score is checked for *purposes of lending you money*, that's a "hard" check and counts against you.  The logic is that if you're asking lots of people for loans in a short period of time, you might have some upcoming financial problems that make your a poor credit risk.

Let's say you've got a friend that wants to borrow $20.  It's not that big of a deal so you'll probably lend him the money.  If you find out that he's been going around asking everyone he knows if he can borrow money, it's going be suspicious and a reasonable person might wonder if they'll get their money back.

Question: As a man, why does all sexual desire disappear after an orgasm? It's almost to the point where I think sex is disgusting for a while (NSFW)
Answer: It's called a [refractory period](_URL_1_) and it can last anywhere from minutes to days, during which a man cannot achieve erection, arousal or orgasm. 

Biochemically, sexual arousal increases the hormones oxytocin and dopamine. Oxytocin is known as the "love hormone" in that it seems to promote prosocial feelings, increases levels of trust, bonding, empathy and so forth. Oxytocin, in other words, counteracts feelings of suspicion, aversion, disgust, mistrust, behavioral control, fear, anxiety, lowering a number of common social inhibitions and perhaps enabling orgasm to occur. 

 > Trust is increased by oxytocin.[51][52][53] Disclosure of emotional events is a sign of trust in humans. When recounting a negative event, humans who receive intranasal oxytocin share more emotional details and stories with more emotional significance.[52] Humans also find faces more trustworthy after receiving intranasal oxytocin. In a study, participants who received intranasal oxytocin viewed photographs of human faces with neutral expressions and found them to be more trustworthy than those who did not receive oxytocin.[51] This may be because oxytocin reduces the fear of social betrayal in humans.[54] Even after experiencing social alienation by being excluded from a conversation, humans who received oxytocin scored higher in trust on the Revised NEO Personality Inventory.  

 > In a risky investment game, experimental subjects given nasally administered oxytocin displayed "the highest level of trust" twice as often as the control group. Subjects who were told they were interacting with a computer showed no such reaction, leading to the conclusion that oxytocin was not merely affecting risk aversion.  

 > Some researchers have argued oxytocin has a general enhancing effect on all social emotions, since intranasal administration of oxytocin also increases envy and Schadenfreude.  

Dopamine is involved in feelings of pleasure and in the brain's reward circuitry. Dopamine is one of the main hormones associated with sexual arousal.  

After orgasm, the hormone [prolactin](_URL_0_) is released. Primarily known for its role in stimulating lactation, prolactin also inhibits dopamine, and this is thought to be responsible for the refractory period.  

 > The amount of prolactin can be an indicator for the amount of sexual satisfaction and relaxation. Unusually high amounts are suspected to be responsible for impotence and loss of libido (see hyperprolactinemia symptoms).  

That's the biochemistry. In layman's terms, hypothetically, you could describe sexual arousal and orgasm as a complex interplay of inhibitions and excitations. In order to be turned on, your brain has to inhibit a number of "normal" social functions: suspicion, aversion, fear, mistrust, disgust, shame, etc. In order to achieve orgasm (isn't it that a great phrase, to "achieve" orgasm? it's like winning a ribbon), you have to completely surrender control of your body for a few seconds. An orgasm is almost like a kind of seizure, which would be terrifying if your brain hadn't made you feel like you were so "into it." Imagine how frankly disturbing it might feel to have an orgasm if you *weren't* turned on. It's like your body goes crazy. Anyway, once the orgasm is completed, obviously it's a good idea to get some of those "caution" emotions back. Caution, diffidence, propriety, dignity, self-control, suspicion, shame, disgust, even paranoia. The hormones inhibiting your normal social reserve are themselves inhibited, and suddenly you have a weird feeling like "what the hell am I doing?" 

It's sort of similar to being drunk and doing something stupid, and then waking up in the morning going "Oh my god lord jesus what have I done?" 

**TL;DR - sex is a profoundly weird biological act, and we can only get through it because our hormones inhibit our normal sense of guarded suspicion. Effectively, our brains make us "high" on sex. Then, right after orgasm, we go back to our normal state of mind and find ourselves feeling "what the hell?" In men this effect is often stronger than in women, and in any case the male refractory period tends to make sex briefly impossible.**

Question: what black heads are made of, and why some people get them more than others
Answer: Your skin has millions of glands on its surface that secrete an oily wax known as sebum. This is completely natural, and serves a natural lubricant for your skin to prevent chafing and dryness. Many plants have a similar waxy coating on their leaves, which helps prevent dehydration as well.

These glands can sometimes get clogged with an excess of sebum. The propensity or chance of this happening is not actually related to hygiene, as some people believe. It's just a genetic disposition - some people have oilier skin than others. They are more likely to experience blackheads. The reason they are black is that they usually clog hair follicles, and the hair root reflects light irregularly to make them seem black.

If you've ever removed blackheads using a Biore strip or something, you'll see that they're yellowish in color.

Question: Why are train tracks covered in stones?
Answer: Not all are. A great deal are, but there are some areas where it's dirt, and other where it's cement.

But it's because stone offer the most support.

Dirt can get washed away as mud after a torrential downpour, stones don't do that as often. You even still see trains have trouble with areas that have a lot of dirt around the tracks, as the tracks get washed out.

Question: ISIS seems to be growing every passing day, but it seems like no nation is obviously taking them seriously, why is that?
Answer: We are not in an era of televised war. There's nobody on the ground filming western nations deploying troops because that's not how ISIS is being engaged. 

There's no warning for the press to get some great action shots of a drone strike, which is how the US primarily is fighting ISIS. Nobody wants a ground war after "Mission Accomplished." This is not a fight that can dominate the airwaves in the same way as previous wars; instead we *hear* about Drone Strike success days after they happen. 

The real media coverage is coming from terrorist attacks conducted by ISIS. I assure you they are being taken seriously, but nobody has engaged in a ground war with them.

Question: How exactly do we know what human-based climate change is a major reason for heavier storm seasons, and not the planet heating up naturally?
Answer: That is a pretty meaningless question. If you had to load up a shelf with 50 pounds of rocks and 50 pounds of jellybeans and then the shelf broke because it could only handle 75 pounds how can you be sure if it was the rocks or jellybeans that broke it? You can't, that doesn't mean anything.

There is natural heating of the air and water and there is unnatural heating and both together make a certain amount of energy available to storms. The more energy available the bigger and harder they can hit things. You can't separate out that "some of that energy is human caused and some is natural, which did it?" because both things add up to do it.

Question: What would happen to the body if it is continually electrocuted, like the guy from "Taken?"
Answer: The arc in that movie went through his legs. If the ground was wet and he didn't have rubber soled shoes on it would likely go through one leg into the ground and into the other leg to the ground wire or simply to the ground if it was a better path.

If he had rubber soled shoes on it would move up one leg through his hips to the other leg and out the ground wire.

In either case the arc would likely avoid his vital organs (namely lungs/heart/nervous system controlling those systems). If the arc was weak enough he would likely not be harmed enough to die. If the arc was weak the bolts in his legs would heat up and burn him there, but unless the current was strong enough it wouldn't burn the skin itself for some time. Assuming it's strong enough, most likely he'd be burned by the arc until such point that the burns were life-threatening and at that point he would die from shock.

If the arc went to his abdomen it could cause his muscles there to lock up and make breathing difficult or impossible and he may then suffocate. Another possibility would be the convulsions caused by the electricity causing muscle contractions to cause his head to bang into the chair or a wall and be may die of blunt force trauma.

So how long he would live depends on a number of factors. Most probably he would continue to feel some amount of pain until he went into shock or became unconscious.

However, the draw of a short circuit like that would likely blow a fuse or trip a breaker before too long. Although if I recall it was some sort of ghetto third world set-up so who knows.

Question: The difference between glass and crystal
Answer: [This](_URL_1_) is probably better than trying to explain it. From [here](_URL_0_)

 > The difference between crystalline silica and silica glass is shown in these simplified two-dimensional projections. It is readily apparent that much of the ordered arrangement of crystalline silica is lost in the glassy form. But the glass retains enough Si–O bonds to form a hard, rigid material.

Question: Why is the tech market considered a bubble and what are the precursors to when it is likely to pop?
Answer: Some people think the tech sector is a bubble because many companies are trading or being bought for a very large multiplier of what they are currently earnings. People are forecasting very large earnings in the future for these firms even if they aren't making much money right now.

If it really is a bubble who can know when it's going to pop? If it was easy to figure out then it would already be popping.

Question: Why does cheese go hard when you melt it then let it go cold?
Answer: When you heat the cheese up past a certain point, moisture is released, which when it cools down, makes it harder as it is more dense.  Water in cheese makes it softer.

Question: Why was Spelling a Core subject in Elementary school but no longer in Middle and High school?
Answer: Spelling never really gets any harder.  Vocabulary just expands.  It would be like having addition class.

Question: why some people are more susceptible to bug bites than others.
Answer: IMO as someone who gets attacked by Mosquitos... It might have something to do with the way your body releases Carbon dioxide and your blood...
Mosquitos are drawn to Co2 so if your body breathes out a higher concentration of it, those monsters are more attracted to you. Even while walking next to someone I get bit more often.

Question: How does a toilet actually flush from water being added to the bowl?
Answer: [Toilet Crossview](_URL_0_) for reference.

As water is added to the bowl, it rises up the pipe following that blue line. When enough water is added, it overflows the other side and gravity takes over. That water overflowing creates a chain of negative pressure and the remaining water/contents of the bowl are basically sucked out through the pipe.

Edit: [Video of the process in action](_URL_1_). When the video mentions the siphon created in the back/pipe of the toilet, it's the negative pressure I was referring to.

Question: How can North Korea treat it's people in such horrible conditions without the UN or another country intervening?
Answer: Credit /u/Ferredog:

* **UN:** The UN only matters by way of the Security Council. One of the main members of the UNSC is China. China doesn't want America gaining a larger foothold in Asia, nor refugees at its doorstep. Individual members of the UN very rarely like it when one member is given free reign to enter a country with which it has interests (France going in to Mali had almost zero consequences for any members of the UNSC hence why the UN didn't complain). For the rest of the UN, they don't like it when other countries attack countries which are dealing with their own problems (questions of sovereignty). North Korea's prisoners count as North Korea's citizens therefore they are North Korea's problems (at least that's what some of the more atrocious governments of the world want).

* **South Korea:** an unspoken desire in South Korea is not to reunify. You'll never hear an official say it to the press but the reason South Korea doesn't want to reunify is because reunification with North Korea will annihilate the South's economy as East Germany's reunification did to West Germany (and West Germany was a lot richer than South Korea and North Korea is basically 3rd World). This is quite shocking for non-Koreans to hear but it is remarkably common for Koreans to voice in private, especially the younger generation who have little connection to what transpires in North Korea.

* **Intervention for morality:** The question of intervention for a moral basis in international politics is highly debatable/subjective. World War 2 began for the West due to Hitler's breach of sovereignty and Pearl Harbor, not due to their atrocities. Former Yugoslavia is debatable if it was internal (genocide within Yugoslavia) or external (genocidal war between the newly formed nations). The external, like the first Gulf War, is much more clear-cut in terms of interventionism. The Rwandan genocide was a disaster for the UN in terms of interventionism and disgusting considering how France hijacked the intervention to further their own political desires and rearm the genocidaries.

* **Good intentions, bad consequences:** Obvious reason, nuke and war in Korea. If the West were coming for North Korea, the Kim dynasty would have nothing to lose and no reason not to set off the nuke. Also, it's possible that eradicating the leadership could make the country unstable, especially if no-one were willing/able to occupy the country after the war (China wouldn't allow US, South Korea wouldn't allow China). An unstable country with nukes is bad which is why Pakistan gets so much padding despite being a mess of a country.

**Source:** Masters in International Relations; Dissertation on the UN and moral necessity in Interventionism; North Korea are my neighbors.

Edit: Grammar and changed "exists" to "matters"

Question: Why hasn't David Miscavige (and the rest of Scientology for that matter) been investigated by the police yet?
Answer: Scientology in the past have made it a point to go after people personally if they don't get what they want. (google how they got their tax exemption status). They even tried to infiltrate law enforcement (operation show white). This hasn't stopped the FBI though.

However, since they are classed as a religious group, a lot of their actions are viewed as 'religious practices'. Not to mention that everyone 'volunteers' to undergo these actions.

Like his wife took the fall for Ron L Hubbard, every scientology member will take the fall for Miscavige.

Question: What determines the color of the meat of a fish?
Answer: This is covered in good extent in book called Modernist Cuisine. I recommend to read that.

Meat and fish are red/dark usually for the same reason blood is red. Its the oxygen carrying molecules that make it red. Now this means that from the color of the meat you can see what is the purpose of those muscles in the animal. The muscles used continuously for long times need to work aerobically and thus require the oxygen carrying molecules which make them dark meat. The muscles that are needed only for short strong burst of operation can work anaerobically and are thus white.

Case of chicken: Chicken leg meats are dark because chickens walk around all day. The chicken breasts are white meat because chicken only fly short bursts up to a branch. As comparison, duck breast is very dark meat because ducks need to fly long distances.

Salmon is red because they are adapted to swim up a river for laying their eggs. This requires long high power excercise.

White fish are mostly white meat because 99.9% of time they swim with only idle speed and very low power. For this swimming they use only small part of the muscle which is dark meat. You can see that dark meat in middle of a fillet next to the skin. The rest is white muscle which is used for only for short burst of extreme power needed to avoid the predator trying to catch the fish.

Edit: fixed some typos

Question: Why can't you be born with dark skin colour if your parents are white (and vice versa)?
Answer: Skin color is genetic, like hair or eye color. If your parents aren't coded for it they can't pass it on to you.

Question: Timbre, or how I know the difference between the sound of a piano and the sound of a violin
Answer: Ordinary musical sounds are actually quite complex. We think of a trumpet as playing one note at a time. But it really plays one "fundamental tone" (the lowest) with many "overtones" due to the way that it resonates. This gives a trumpet much of its distinctive sound...its "timbre".  The overtones are multiples of the fundamental frequency, but different instruments make different overtones.
   
You can electronically recreate a trumpet note by combining a fundamental sound with the right set of overtones. You then just add them together and you get a trumpet-like sound.  Or mix together a fundamental and a different set of overtones and you get a flute.   
   
But there's more to a trumpet sound to that. It also has a distinctive way that the sound starts (the "attack") and trails off (the "decay"). If you can change how rapidly the trumpet note (fundamental plus overtones) go from zero to full amplitude and then back again, you can fake that, too.

Question: Is it just a coincidence that 'Who', 'What', 'When', 'Where', and 'Why' all start with 'Wh' or is there a reason?
Answer: There is a reason. Specifically the grammar of PIE (the earliest ancestor language of modern English that we have a fair working knowledge of) marked interrogatives (words like who, what, when etc) with a prefix that sounded like 'kw'. (I'm no linguist, but I suppose this is kind of like the way English marks questions with a rising final intonation).

As PIE morphed into English (via German) the 'kw' prefix became 'hw'. Say both sounds together and notice how similar they are to actually say. Over time the order of the hw got swapped around, and the pronunciation simplified to 'w' in most cases and 'h' in a few words eg. 'how'.

Interestingly, PIE also developed along parallel lines into other languages like Latin. And in Latin, interrogatives mostly all start with the letter 'q', another obvious descendant from the 'kw' sound. (For example English 'what' and Latin 'quod').

Question: Why can't the world have one currency?
Answer: There is no reason we couldn't, it wouldn't even be hard to implement if we got 100% buy in from all countries.

The problem is that having your own currency is awesome.  You can manipulate it to control inflation, interest rates, and other economic factors.  You are somewhat detached from other countries, so their economic troubles don't necessarily become yours (Example - Germany and Greece).

Given the benefits of having your own currency (along with a certain amount of national pride) it is unlikely we will have a global currency for the foreseeable future.

Question: shaped charges. I read a little about it but I just don't understand them
Answer: An explosion is basically a shockwave.  For a uniform, round explosive, the wave is more or less spherical.

However, you can change the shape of the shockwave by changing the shape and material of the explosive.  Just like light, shockwaves move slower through some materials.  By creating a lens shape using a different material, the wave can be bent and focused in the same way a glass lens will bend light.  The material used to make the lens can be anything, but is usually either air or an explosive with a different shockwave velocity.

Question: My nearest major city has a road grid that is *slightly* angled off East West. Is there a practical reason for this?
Answer: From what I can tell of the [article on the "Hoddle Grid"](_URL_0_), it's not a continuation of the original infrastructure, which has a different angle meant to match with the Yarra River.

That same article implies that the *slightly* off angle of the rest of the city is aligned with what magnetic north used to be, 8 degrees off true north. But that's not really cited so I don't know if it's definitive or just a guess.

Question: As a German with not much knowledge about the US, please explain why Florida is so often made fun of/spoken badly about
Answer: There are laws in Florida that arrests are a matter of public record so they end up in the newspaper.  Every state and country has idiots doing stupid things but in Florida if they get arrested it goes in the newspaper for everyone to see.  This makes it seem like these things happen way more often in Florida when really its just about reporting.

Question: [NSFW] Is there a biological reason why every girl I see is way more attractive when I haven't masturbated in a long time?
Answer: Quick, this 5 year old needs an explanation.

Question: How are torrent-hosting sites simply not shut down for copyright violations?
Answer: Generally because there is nothing hosted on a torrent site. The street equivalent is knowing a guy that can get access to anything. You walk up to him and say, I want some weed. He tells you to go into that red door. Someone else wants to buy booze. He tells them to go into that blue door. Cops come up and try to arrest him for selling drugs. They search him but he has nothing on him. They have to let him go because he doesn't have anything on him and knowing were to get certain drugs is not a crime.

Also most hosting sites are not not hosted on American soil so they can tell the DMCA to fuck right off.

Question: How can cord cutting not build a case for companies to fight net neutrality or raise prices in general?
Answer: The cable cutting movement is a tiny portion of total customers.  As long as the vast majority are maintaining their combination package, the small number that purchase only one or the other are no big deal.

What I find funny is the number of so called "cable cutters" are using the same provider for internet that would have used if they also got TV.  The same "evil corporation" (or whatever their reasoning may be) is getting paid, just not as much.

Question: . How do news organizations benefit from being biased?
Answer: Being partisan can build them a loyal following.  People like having their preconceived notions affirmed.  Going to a news source where they have their notions affirmed over and over can gain them very loyal watchers.

Plus, it allows advertisers to to very specifically target their advertisements.  Go to Fox News and see how many people you see selling Gold type investments and compare it to how much you see them on more general TV.

Question: why cant NG (naso-gastric) or similar be used as a weight loss option?
Answer: NG tubes come with complications. They are not meant to be long term solutions, and would also seriously impact quality of life (walking around with a tube out your nose isn't something most people would agree to). 

More permanent options, such as tubes that go straight through the abdominal wall into the gut, are easier to hide. But they also come with their own set of complications and require surgery for placement, along with all the risks that surgery entails. 

But the bottom line is that none of those target the heart of the addiction. Food is something that people become addicted to because it is delicious, and can become an emotional crutch. No tube can stop a person from craving the feeling of food, and it won't even stop a determined person from eating. Until emotional and psychological issues are dealt with, feeding tubes will do nothing to prevent addiction.

Question: If a sizable spacecraft was hovering over earth, would we be able to see it?
Answer: You can spot satellites and the ISS from the ground already.

They look like shooting stars, but you can see them.

Question: How come sometimes when I blow my nose, and there's a lot of snot, I can't get it out no matter how hard I blow?
Answer: You have hairs in your nose that detect when dust and other particles enter and makes you sneeze , the mucas dryes and attaches to them like an anchor

Question: Why does a hearing a recording of my voice sound different to me then when I hear myself talk?
Answer: We hear sounds as vibrations hitting our ear drums. When we hear most sounds, these vibrations travel through the air and into the ear canal. Our own voices also vibrate through our bodies, creating a slightly lower pitch.

When you hear a recording of your voice you are missing this extra level of vibration that lowers the sound, so your voice sounds higher than what you are used to.

Source: _URL_0_

Question: How did the asterisk end up being used for correcting an incorrectly spelled word?
Answer: I think that relates to their use as footnotes. An asterisk* after a word refers to a passage at the bottom of the page which has clarification or extra information regarding the word.

I think that with the advent of instant messaging, the method gained popularity as a corrective footnote. The first asterisk of the pair is obviously missing because you can't plan for typos in advance.

---
^(*which, FYI, comes from Latin "aster" which means star)

Question: What methods of timekeeping were used before the hour became widely accepted?
Answer: In the New Testament, the Roman "watches" were used for night time measurements. They were generally three of our hours long, so the first watch was from 6 PM, then 9 PM, Midnight, and 3 AM to 6 AM.

Early Jews divided the night into three watches of four of our hours each.

But the Romans also divided the day into twelve hours, as (more or less) do we.

Perhaps someone with knowledge of ancient China would have a different division of time.

Question: considering recent events, what gives the mayor of Baltimore the power to impose a curfew?
Answer: The riots impose an immediate threat to civilians, and thus to ensure public safety a mandatory curfew can be set in motion. As long as it does not interfere with emergencies or work, there is 0 issues with it, and it doesn't. Think of it as a smaller scale version of night time curfews during WWII.

Question: what the JPMorgan "London whale" did to lose 2 billion dollars
Answer: This is pretty complicated, but the most basic ideas to understand here are **derivatives** and **leverage**.  These are not too hard to understand, but they can't be explained in one paragraph.

We'll start with derivatives.  The simplest kind of derivative is what's called a **futures contract**, which is a promise to buy or sell some amount of something at an agreed price at an agreed future date.  This may sound a bit complex, but in fact, it's really simple, and one of the older kinds of future contracts are agricultural ones, which can be paraphrased similar to this: "Today I agree to sell one metric ton of wheat on August 15 for $50."

Now, here are two possible users of derivative contracts on wheat:

* The wheat farmer, before growing season starts, needs to plan how much wheat to grow.  Growing more wheat involves more labor, and if he grows too much he will lose money.  He could check how much wheat is selling for today, but the scary thing about that is that if he decides based on today's price, but then by harvest time the price of wheat has gone down, he loses.
* The baker uses wheat to bake cakes.  Suppose that the season after harvest is the season when most people get married, so because of all of the wedding parties there is a big demand for cakes.  People place the orders for the cakes several months before the weddings, and pay ahead of time.  Since the baker has to bake the cakes just before the weddings, the thing that really scares the baker is that the price of wheat might go up a lot between now and then; if it goes up too much she might not even be able to buy all the wheat she needs!

So the way these two problems get solved is this: the farmer and the baker agree that on the week before the weddings happen, the baker will buy a specific amount of the farmer's wheat at a specific price that they agree on today.  Now the farmer is no longer scared that the price of wheat will crash, because the baker is going to buy it at the preset price anyway; likewise, the baker isn't scared that the price of wheat will go up, because the farmer has promised to sell at the prest price.

Now things get more complicated:

* The farmer and the baker can make a different agreement that is equally useful to them: instead of a promise to buy or sell at that price, what they can do is use something called *cash settlement*.  For example, if by the time wedding week comes around the price of wheat has gone up, the farmer can pay the price difference to the baker; now the farmer can just sell to whoever he wants at the higher price, and the baker can use the money that the farmer paid her to buy from whoever at the higher price.
* Because of this, future contracts are like betting.  The farmer is scared that wheat prices will go down, which would cause him a business loss, so he makes a bet that they *will* go down; if they do go down, his business loses money, but since his bet makes money it balances out.  The baker is the opposite case: since she would lose money if wheat prices go up, she makes a bet that they will go up to protect herself.
* The farmer and the baker need to feel confident that the other one can't break their promise.  The way this is done is that each of them makes a cash deposit with somebody neutral (say, the banker) to demonstrate that they're serious.  This deposit is called the **margin**.  On the day that the contract is due, the banker compares the price of wheat with the price that the farmer and baker agreed, and makes the appropriate cash payments.
* The example I've given you is futures contracts on the price of wheat, but a futures contract can be written on the price of *anything*; stock prices, bond prices, interest rates, frozen orange juice, the weather in January, petroleum, etc.
* Not all derivatives contracts are futures; there are other kinds, but I won't go into them.

Now, with all that behind us, we can actually explain how a bank can lose two billion on one trade.  Basically, futures contracts and other derivatives allow you to make really huge bets without investing a lot of money.

Suppose that the stock of the Acme Gadget Company is currently selling for $50 a share.  Now suppose you have $50,000 to invest.  You can do two things:

1. You could buy 1,000 shares of Acme.  To do this, you have to pay the full price: $50 x 1,000 = $50,000.
2. You could buy a three-month futures contract on the price of Acme.  To do this, you don't have to pay the full price; you just have to make the margin deposit that we discussed above.   If the required margin is 10% of the price, this means that with a $50,000 deposit you can buy a futures contract for 10,000 shares.

Now see what happens if Acme's price goes up by 10%, to $55:

1. If you bought the 1,000 shares directly, you can sell them for $55,000, for a gain of 10%.  Good job.
2. However, if you got a contract on 10,000 shares with a $50,000 deposit, you now have $100,000.  You doubled your money!

And now consider what happens if the price drops by 10%, to $45:

1. If you bought the 1,000 shares, you lost $5,000 dollars, and are now at $45,000.  Not good, but hey, you still have 90% of your money!
2. If you got the futures contract, however, you just lost all of your $50,000.  Bye bye.

So using derivatives instead of investing directly amplifies your gains and losses.  This is called **leverage**.  This is why JPMorgan can lose two billion on a bad trade—they use a lot of derivatives in order to maximize their gains, but when things go bad, they lose a *lot* of money.

Now, this explanation skips a lot of detail, because JPMorgan didn't lose that money on a stock futures contract; they lost it on some sort of complicated strategy that uses other kinds of derivatives on something else that's not stocks.  And I don't actually understand those details that well myself, to tell you the truth.  But whatever they are, it's really just more applications of the same two concepts: derivatives and leverage.

Question: Why do most dogs seem to love beer?
Answer: My dog isn't picky. She likes anything even vaguely edible, including paper. I've also known dogs that would eat dirt and rocks, so beer really isn't that weird in comparison.

Question: How does your brain change from when you are a kid to when you are an adult?
Answer: Physically the brain is almost done growing by like age three or so. The brain only gets slightly bigger afterwards. However as you getting older, the brain develops. This means when learning the brain makes new electrical paths. For example, when a toddler is learning to fine tune their motor skills, the electrical impulse initially does not go as in depth to the areas of the brain responsible for moving limbs. This is why a child may be clumsy but as the child grows the electrical impulse will start to   enter the region in more depth, or makes a different path that is faster. 

If damage is done to brain early enough in development, then the brain will adapt due to neural plasticity. Neural plasticity basically means that the areas responsible for certain activities would slightly re-organize itself so that responsibilities of the damaged area will still be possible. This isn't instant and it requires time and therapy to relearn anything lost.(Like showing the brain that it was important enough to make room for the skill.) 

The older you get, the harder it is to recover from brain damage because as the brain develops, it basically starts to set in and it is harder to re-organize everything. (Think of jello with fruit, its harder to move the fruits around the more set the jello is). I don't know exactly what you mean by "strength" but child brains are very good at recovering. Adult brains do neural plasticity as well but it is as effective, so some damage will be permanent and recovery is a-lot longer. I saw a documentary on a girl who had to get one side of her brain removed because her seizures where becoming very serious. With therapy, she can now do everything a normal person can do.

Question: What makes Cuban cigars so sought after? Can they not be grown on another Caribbean country?
Answer: It's partly that the soil and climate in Cuba are pretty well unique. Sure tobacco grows everywhere, but exactly where it grows affects it, just like any other crop.

It's partly the specific varieties and cultivars of tobacco we're talking about. The tobacco grown from Cuban seed is still among the most prized in the world.

It's partly the skill of the growers, agers, blenders, and rollers of the tobacco, all of whose skills contribute to the overall quality and flavor of the cigar.

All of that said, there are other places in the world where cigar tobacco can be grown with wonderful results. Some of them are even in the US, but a lot of them are in Nicaragua, the Dominican Republic, etc.

There are also tobaccos grown in those places that were raised from Cuban seeds. I don't know if they were smuggled out or exported more legitimately, but Cuban-seed tobacco is a real thing from a lot of places.

Frankly, a lot of the growers, agers, blenders, and rollers left Cuba when the old tobacco plantations were nationalized. They've gone to Nicaragua and the Dominican Republic, among other places, and they've trained further generations of workers.

Today, you can get really excellent cigars from all over the place. My current favorite is a Honduran cigar, but I've enjoyed Nicaraguans, Dominicans, and even a Cuban or two over the years.

Question: How can you watch a video while you are still downloading it?
Answer: Essentially a torrent is just downloading your file in lots of little fragments from other computers. If your torrenter is set up to request and download these fragments in order, assemble them, and then you play them almost immediately after that, then it does give the impression you're watching it as it's being downloaded. i.e. It downloads the first minute, plays it while it's downloading the second minute, and so on. Of course this is limited on you downloading faster than you can watch, but that's essentially how it all works.

Question: Why does IT not have apprenticeship programs?
Answer: There are. Germany introduced IT apprenticeship in 1997.

Question: Why is incest such a common trope in porn?
Answer: It's taboo (which makes it exciting), it's something that could arise out of a real life situation (theoretically it could happen to anyone, even you!), and it strikes the chord of "when sex was still new and exciting" (even if the actors aren't pretending to be underage, there's usually a younger inexperienced character). Even if you're icked out by actual incest, it's kind of the holy trifecta of arousal.

Question: Why do some salon style shampoos and conditioners have a warning that products purchased from anywhere other than salons could be counterfeited?
Answer: The salons get to put a large markup on those products and dont want you buying them elsewhere

Question: How are game engines built?
Answer: Game engines are more tools that make it easier for a person to put a game together without worrying about the bare basics of rendering or physics in order to get it to work.

 >  why can't they be improved instead of having to build whole new ones?

Most of the time they are improved instead of building new ones, but the new iteration of the engine is such a huge improvement over the old one, or has had to change the way that the engine functions so drastically that it might as well be new, and the version number goes from MadeUpEngine 2.5 to MadeUpEngine 3 instead of 2.6. Sometimes the new versions are built from scratch, that usually happens when integration with a new technology or some new way of optimizing things would require changing the very way that the game engine works, and is just far more trouble to try to add in than to just build a new one.

 >  What kind of experience do people have so that they know how to do things like that?

You need to know a great deal of GUI programming, 3D and 2D graphics integration and optimization, and generally just have a solid understanding of how to make games in general work best, since the performance of a game made in your engine is limited by how efficient your engine is. It sounds a lot simpler than it is. Trust me, I've tried.

Question: How did punch cards work? Specifically, what is the reading mechanism?
Answer: There are eighty columns on a card.  Each column can be punched with a single hole, in a location that designates a number 0 through 9.  Each column can also be punched with two holes whose locations designate a letter of the alphabet.  Modern punch machines (70's modern) both read and punch.  They read by shining light at the card that passes through mechanism. The light shines through the punch holes and hits matrix of photo electric cells. If you were working on a critical job you typed in your data, or code to punch the cards and then stick them back in the hopper and type it again and the machine would detect errors if it found them.

Punch cards could be used for data entry or for writing code.  It was a sad day when you dropped your cards.  A sad day indeed.

If I had a nickel for every card I used in the 70's I'd be extremely wealthy today.

Question: Why are the Turks and Kurds currently in conflict?
Answer: The Kurds are an ethnic minority that live in Kurdistan (parts of Turkey, Iran and Iraq). Turkey does not recognize this minority and does not grant them many rights. Also, there is a long history of massacres against the Kurds. 

The Kurds have formed separatist groups with the goal to become independent from Turkey. The main rebel group is the PKK which is recognized as a terrorist organization by Turkey and the NATO (not by EU). They mainly operate out of Iraq and launch attacks against Turkey.

Question: why other sects of Christianity generally do not like Catholics.
Answer: At one point in time, the Catholic Church was the *only* church...in fact, the word catholic means "universal".

Every major branch of Christianity at some point in time broke away from the Catholics.  Not only did they disagree on religion, but it lead to centuries of war in Europe, with one king trying to change the religion of his country, and the next trying to change it back.  This has led to some hard feelings that endure today. 

Check out the Reformation and the Counter Reformation for more info.

Question: What is "Shepard's Tone"
Answer: There are two notes on top of one another.  They're both the same note, such as both being a C note, but one is one octave above the other and has a much higher pitch.  If you play a scale using notes like these, CDEFGABC with a much higher pitched CDEFGABC playing at the same time, the highest C of the first scale is the same sound as the lowest C of the second scale.  So if you play it twice in a row, the low notes will sound like they're just continuing and becoming the high notes.

From there, your brain takes over.  Your brain is really good at making guesses and filling in for information it doesn't have, and one of the ways it does that is by recognizing patterns and completing them.  When it hears this scale, it makes the assumption that it keeps going up forever and tells your ears that's what they're hearing.  It doesn't matter that the highest note isn't getting any higher, because your brain has a range of sound it really likes and is already focusing in on the lower notes again, assuming that those high notes are continuing in the pattern it predicted.

Try this:  listen to a Shepard's Tone (they're all over youtube), and halfway through, take out your headphones or mute your computer for a second.  When you turn the sound back on, that tone will have seemingly "reset" and sound lower again.  That's because your brain is starting over with the pattern it's interpreting, and it always wants to start with that specific middle range of sound it likes.

Question: Why are dogs affraid of vacuums?
Answer: Like people, all dogs personalities are not the same.  I have three dogs of varying size (55, 75  &  100 lbs).  My bulldog is not scared of thunder or guns, but is afraid of the vacuum  &  fireworks.  My mutt is afraid of absolutely everything (he will stop breathing when it is thundering outside.. he's a weirdo).  And my Pit/Whippet mix is not afraid of a damn thing on this earth; if anything she is just curious about it all.  She won't bark at the vacuum, she'll follow it around and sniff it.  When it's thundering outside, she likes to go out  &  play while looking at the sky.

However, I think a major reason dogs tend not to like the vacuum is because it makes a terrible noise, makes motions that seem unfamiliar  &  does not smell like it is alive (but acts like it).

Question: Why do we so often have music stuck in our heads?
Answer: I don't know the actual science behind it but I know music is meant to get stuck in your head. It makes it more popular and catchy tunes and beats are often most popular. Plus, the human mind enjoys music it finds predictable and easy to listen to, which is exactly what gets stuck in your head.

Question: [NSFW maybe] how come when you tickle yourself you don't feel anything but when you masturbate its pleasurable?
Answer: When you are tickled your body thinks it's being attacked, thats why you can't tickle yourself (cause what person attacks his/herself?)

Question: Why can public schools, funded by the government, limit the rights of its students?
Answer: It's a legal concept called [in loco parentis](_URL_0_). The school is legally acting in place of your parent while you're a student, and as such are allowed to act in your best interest as they see fit. There are some legal restrictions on this in the interest of upholding civil rights with regard to discrimination, abuse, and things of that nature, but generally speaking the school can legally act exactly as a parent would to enforce the greater good and safety of its students and the educational environment.

Question: This whole idea of "we make the car, then ship it to independent dealers to charge whatever they want" seems kind of silly. Make the car, ship it to your brand's retail stores, and sell it. Done. What's the deal?
Answer: Rather than just legislative reasons there are many reasons why car manufacturers wouldn't want to own the dealerships. It's the same reasons why Apple is about the only laptop  &  smartphone manufacturer which sells direct and why very few manufacturers in general do it. I'm not very familiar with Tesla, but I can talk with a lot more authority on Apple** which also sells directly, unlike most other smartphone  &  laptop manufacturers.

In short, it's very complicated and expensive. Buying/renting all that retail space is very pricey; not to mention the massive amounts of extra staff you would need to take on. For example, according to [Apple's annual report](_URL_0_), 42,800 of its 80,300 staff are retail employees i.e. 53% of all of Apple's employees. That's not just a lot of wages, but a lot of training hours, a lot of hiring work, a lot more work for HR in general, a lot more work for your finance team getting everyone's pay out correctly etc. The potential for lawsuits also jumps by several orders of magnitude when Joe Public is able to walk onto your premises.

But surely the increased take would make up for it? Well not always. Building out such a large retail business is very risky compared to selling to dealerships (as the dealership is effectively taking on all of the risk). Many large, well known brands have tried and failed to build their own retail stores. Go see any of Microsoft's stores if your don't believe me.

Investing a large amount of capital in retail does not look good on a company's balance sheet either. One of the ways investors judge a company's performance is called "return on capital employed" i.e how much profit you make for every $ of capital you use. If you have a retail strategy, your profits would go up, but your profit per $ invested would go down. This makes your stock a worse investment for shareholders, meaning your stock price drops and your CEO gets fired.

So the question really should be why do Tesla and Apple have their own retail stores at all? The answer is that so much of the value of Tesla and Apple is the brand and so ensuring customers get a top quality experience is vital to being able to charge high prices and generate the type of profit margins Apple is famous for.

** I work as an industry analyst covering the smartphone market. If you've ever read a "what the experts think about phone x" piece or comment in press, there's a not insignificant chance I'm quoted.

Question: what live streams are
Answer: They play games live, they have webcam and or screen cam and play. Simple. its LIVE.

Question: Javascript objects basics
Answer: Objects are things which have properties and do stuff.  They are described by a "class".  You can think of a specific car as an object, and the diagram of the car as the car "class".  From that diagram you can create many different "instances" or individual creations out of the car class.

The car, being an object normally has both properties, and methods.  These can be thought of as descriptions of your object (properties) and stuff your object can do (methods).

So a property might be "Weight" which would have the value of a ton, or whatever cars way, or "horsepower" which would be some other number, or "color" which might be orange because hey, why not?  These are all properties.  Your car diagram (the Class) will describe things like horsepower or color, but individual customers can get their car in different colors.  The Color "property" can be different depending on which specific car object you're talking about.

Besides properties, objects also have methods. These are descriptions of how the object interacts with the world.  For example, there might be a method "Accelerate" which increases the cars speed, or "BurstIntoFlames" which might do what it says.  The methods might change some of the objects properties as well.  So after acclerating, the "speed" property will be different, and after "BurstIntoFlames" the car might now be black.

Objects are useful because you don't really need to know how cars handle Bursting into flames, just knowing that's one of the things a car can do is enough, you just tell the car to do that, it figures out how it's done internally, and you know when you check back the car object will have burst into flames.

Let me know if that all makes sense and if there's something more specific you're looking for.

Question: How Memory Is Stored In the Brain And Subsequently Retrieved
Answer: Not an answer: But someone once told me a memory is only a memory of the last time you remembered it. So it may be very different from the main event. That's why it "fades".

Question: What is happening inside my console when a game is loading?
Answer: Loading from the hard drive to the RAM.

In a computer (including consoles), the processors, the GPU and CPU, need to have quick access to the data, and hard drives are far too slow to provide this, even new SSDs are still too slow. So what was the solution to this? RAM, or Random Access Memory. RAM is very very fast, providing the data needed, but they need the data loaded into them first, hence the loading process. Some other processes may occur in preparation, maybe some decompression, but mainly the hard drive is what slows it down.

In the last few years though, SSDs, or Solid State Drives, have started to become relevant, and these are good because they are fast, allowing quick access of data. Loading times are basically non existent on them.

Loaded data is then reworked by the CPU and GPU to display those characters on the screen, assigning each pixel a different color every time the frame changes.

Question: Is it possible for new types of sailor's knots to be "discovered"? Or have the common ones been around for hundreds of years?
Answer: The common ones have been around for ages. They are the most efficient and easiest to tie.

There're four main types of knots: Bend - ties two lines together; Hitch - ties a line to another object; Loop - creates a loop in the rope; and stopper knots, which basically just make the line thicker.

The most efficient form of each of these knots has been known for a long long time (Reef knot, clove hitch, bowline, figure-eight, respectively). There's other, more complicated ones for more specialized tasks, but these four are easiest to tie, have been around longest, and are the most often used.

Knots used outside of sailing, that have specialized tasks can be considered newer. For example the [Prusik knot](_URL_0_) was "invented" in the 20^th century.

TL:DR: New knots can and have been invented recently, but the most often used, best knots have been around forever.

Question: While digital video is stored as separate frames, how is sound stored digitally?
Answer: An analog audio signal is represented as a wave, looking like [this](_URL_0_). If you want to represent this in digital, you just go along this wave and mark the amplitude (the height) of the wave at regular intervals. The result is a long list of numbers, each of them called a "sample".  If these intervals are short enough and you use large enough numbers for the samples, you can recreate the analogue waveform close to 100% using the digital signal. Audio CDs for example use 44,100 samples per second with 16bit numbers, which is in most cases far more than sufficient for our ears.

Question: Why didn't Gandalf use his powerful Eagle friends to transport the fellowship to mordor? Or even use them to take thorin oakenshield's group to the misty mountain? It would have saved many lives including Boromir.
Answer: They would have been seen and killed before they got there. Hobbits on foot were the better choice because they could sneak in unnoticed past hordes of orcs.

Question: Whats the big deal about quantum computers. Whats the difference compared to normal computers?
Answer: There are problems a full-fledged quantum computer could solve in a reasonable amount of time that we don't think a classical computer could solve in any reasonable amount of time. One such problem is integer factorization – the best known algorithms for classical computers would take absurd amounts of time to run for large numbers, whereas we have algorithms for quantum computers that could factor those integers quickly, if only we had a quantum computer to run them on.

Theoretically, we can come up with arbitrarily powerful models of computation. What makes the "classical" set of models interesting is that they correspond to actual machines that we can build using our knowledge of science. We strongly suspect that, given our knowledge of quantum mechanics, it is also possible to build useful quantum computers. We just haven't managed to engineer a working model yet.

Question: What is happening when we are "emotionally exhausted"?
Answer: Get married and you will find out. 

Jokes aside. 

Emotions are thoughts and feelings that require your body to provide energy to do. 

if you're having a lot of those, they drain energy and make a person tired. 

Example might be a wife with a sick husband, she has to look after the kids, go to hospital everyday, cook meals run the house and she is terrified her husband is going to die soon. 

The emotional stuff the wife is dealing with costs energy, when energy levels are low its because she is emotionally drained

Question: How do presidents get up to speed on issues?
Answer: The President has not just a staff of secretaries but they have appoint a group called the "Cabinet" whose job it is to be an expert on various things.  If he wanted more information about small business he could go to Penny Pritzker (Department of Commerce) and ask her to compile a report.

Question: Why do people get 'the munchies'?
Answer: [link to article](_URL_0_)

THC is a factor as someone else mentioned, but for different reason. According to the article, the effects of THC (what gets you high) enhances your senses, allowing you to taste and smell food more accurately. In rats, it was found that THC fits into the brain's olfactory bulb; the resulting heightening in senses essentially makes it more desirable to us apparently moreso than feelings hungry. 

Additionally, you're more attracted to the smells and tastes. When sober, the rats were interested in and drawn toward the food oils at first, but they ended up getting used to the smell (they call it olfactory habituation). When dosed with THC, they kept their interest and continued eating the food for much longer.

Interestingly enough, when fasted for a day, rats were found to have released more natural cannabinoids (we have them as well) than usual, again resulting in heightened senses. 



TL;DR: your Olfactory Lobe (senses) pairs well with the THC, and enhances your senses including taste and smell. The heightened effects make the food more desirable. And, as opposed to being sober, your Olfactory Bulb keeps you interested in the smells and tastes for longer which keeps you from getting bored of the taste.

Question: Why FTL implies backward time travel
Answer: it is a sci-fi show cliche for one thing... in theory, the faster you go, the slower time goes for you and it approaches zero as you get closer to the speed of light.  So, based on that logic, if you go faster than the speed of light, you go into negative time.  Supposedly, matter can't go faster than the speed of light and the energy required to even get close is huge.

Question: If underage sex is illegal and murder is illegal then why is viewing underage sex illegal but viewing murder is not?
Answer: People don't murder other people in order to create videos and profit from people watching them. 

But some adults do sexual things to children in order to create videos and make money. 

So when someone watches that underage sex video, they're creating an industry that hurts underage people, who by definition can't consent to sex.

Question: why aren't faucet pipes straight?
Answer: Well, for THAT pipe I would imagine the bend helps slow the waterfall so it doesn't splash too much. But for the ones with the S-bend, like in the USA and other places, it traps water so smells and gas doesn't come back up the pipes.

Question: Newton's Second Law?
Answer: Slap a ball and it'll move in the direction you slapped it. Slap it harder and it'll move faster.

Question: How can fluids be incompressible?
Answer: Fluids aren't completely incompressible; they're generally more compressible than solids, for sure. It's just that, under the kind of conditions normally studied in fluid dynamics, they will only compress a little tiny bit. So we can simplify a *lot* of things if we just say "okay, pretend they can't be compressed".

Question: When a casino brings in a cooler, what exactly is the cooler doing?
Answer: Nothing because it's superstitious nonsense.

If someone is counting cards at a blackjack table and the casino doesn't want to/can't kick them out for some reason, a new dealer will burn a card before they start, which makes it closer to time to shuffle and adds an additional unknown card which makes the count less accurate/useful. But this doesn't happen in practice.

Question: Why is it so difficult for Iran to build nuclear weapons today, if the US could build them in the 40's?
Answer: [The Manhattan Project](_URL_2_) was a tremendous project. It [ grew to employ more than 130,000 people and cost nearly US$2 billion (about $26 billion in 2015[1] dollars). Over 90% of the cost was for building factories and producing the fissile materials, with less than 10% for development and production of the weapons. Research and production took place at more than 30 sites across the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada.](_URL_2_) Sanctions have been put in place by other countries to prevent Iran from building atomic bombs.  [Enriched uranium](_URL_0_) is needed. Iran has been producing this but not enough yet. Iran has just agreed to [reduce its current stockpile](_URL_1_) of enriched uranium.

Question: What exactly is happening when we taste food?
Answer: Its your taste buds that pick up certain chemicals in your food. Your taste buds then send electric pulses to your brain and tells it this is what this thing tastes like, and this is the sensation you should release. That's why the natural human reaction is to pull away from spicy food.

Question: Would "station spinning" (the "rotating wheel") really create a sensation of gravity in a space station?
Answer: It works, and the best part is that you don't have to rotate the station to see the effect. If you move around a stationary circular station the result is pretty similar; NASA played around with this during Skylab: _URL_0_

Question: If everything in the universe disappeared except Earth, our moon, and the Sun, would it be self-sufficient?
Answer: In the short term, probably. The loss of the other planets would have a small but non-negligible effect on the orbits of the three remaining bodies, so eventually something would likely start to go wrong there. 

That aside, the Earth-Moon system is pretty much self-sufficient. There isn't really anything that the Earth receives from celestial bodies that aren't the Moon or Sun that have any significant impact on day to day life.

Question: What's so great about Chicago Cubs winning the world series?
Answer: Toronto fan here. I found myself really happy for the Cubs winning. I guess to put it really into words it starts with the 108 year drought of them not winning a championship - it is just so notorious. There is no longer drought between Championships for any other team not just in baseball, but in the NBA/NHL/NFL, a friend big into football/soccer says no Premier League/EUFA teams have that long a streak either. So it transcends just North American pro sports. So for them to break that streak is completely unprecedented. Generations have lived and died several times without seeing the Cubs win it all. 

The bigger thing also was coming from behind in a 3-1 deficit in the series, especially when the final two games would be played in Cleveland, not Chicago. 

Add also the fact that the Cubs are a pretty well liked club and organization I'd say overall. Unlike say the Yankees or Red Sox who are hugely iconic BUT you do get fans who HATE those teams, you don't tend to hear a lot about people who have some huge disdain for the Cubs. The players on the team are a pretty likable mix of veterans like Ross, Lester, Arrieta and young guys like Bryant. They also feature one of the most exciting pitchers imaginable Aroldis Chapman. They have one of the smartest guys running their front office in Theo Epstein who previously led the Red Sox to break their own World Series dought in 2004 and Joe Maddon one of the most respected managers in the game who had never won a championship. 

So add a truly monumental stream of bad luck with the team not winning for over a century and add their current likeable team, likable mix of players, good organization, fans who have suffered long enough plus unbelievably exciting comeback in the series and then truly memorable Game 7 and it makes this a big deal. 

I'm not from Chicago, I've never visited the city, I live in a different country and my own team the Jays suffered a heartbreaking loss in the playoffs recently but I'm still really happy for the Cubbies and their fans. 

So that's why it's a big deal.

Question: Humans have a limited audio and visual range. Do we also have a limited range of taste?
Answer: Taste is basically the ability to detect the chemical makeup of a substance. 

So yeah, pretty much any chemical we can't taste counts.

Question: What are the Credit Derivatives on the US Debt Clock? Are those simply bets? A type of credit? Or an enormous market that is separate from our GDP?
Answer: Derivatives are mostly like insurance policies, and this is ELI5... I'm going to start with a story.

John buys an old comic book at an auction for $1000.  John expects that the value of that comic book will go up in the future.  If John was worried that the comic might get damaged (and the value of the comic might go down), he might buy an insurance policy for that comic.  John would pay a small amount of money, say $2.00 monthly, for as long as he holds onto the comic, with the understanding that he be able to get $1000 from the insurance company if the comic book meets an accident.

The $1000 value of the insurance policy is *derived* from the $1000 value of the comic book.  The insurance company is now carrying a risk of $1000 for John.

This insurance company has 550 policies for different people (but all for $1000 each for $2 per month).  This would mean that the insurance company is holding $550,000 of risk.  That is the risk-value of 550 insurance policies for $1000 each.  Keep in mind that accidents are relatively rare (and there are fraud investigators for accidents that are not actually accidents).  At $2 per month, per policy, the insurance company can pay out one policy per month and still make a profit.  This is the way Insurance is supposed to work.  All the people paying for protection of their own possessions end up paying to replace the possessions of the few people who are unfortunate to experience a loss of value.

So, even though the insurance company has a potential debt of $550,000, the reality is that they are likely to make a profit.

 --

John and the 449 other insurance customers above had all purchased their comic books with a bank loan.  The bank is literally handing $550,000 over to 550 different people.  The bank itself now has a $550,000 bundle of debt.  This debt is built on the credit of the 550 customers.  The debt is not direct value, it is potential value based on the promises of 550 individuals.  The bank will charge interest on these loans, where each person has to pay $100 per month for a year to pay that money back.  If everyone pays the money back, the bank gets a nice profit of $200 per person.  20%.  If more than 20% of the borrowers don't pay the money back, the bank would then lose value on the debt it holds.

Note: *Those borrowers have also gotten insurance for $550,000.  This is the same $550,000 debt but now "counted" twice.  Once on the customers, where money actually switched hands, and again at the insurance company.  There's not really $1,100,000 of actual debt here.*

The bank itself might want to look for an insurance policy against these loans.  It would use some of that expected profit to pay, say a $2.00 per month insurance premium for each $1000 of debt they want to insure.  **Such an insurance policy is a credit derivative**.

The $550,000 value of the insurance policy is *derived* from the *credit* of 550 individual borrowers.

Note: *This is again a re-counting of that exact same $550,000 as a risk held by yet another insurance company.  Once again, there is not really $1,650,000 of actual debt here.  Just three different places holding a risk balance for the same money.*

 --

A Credit Default Swap (CDS) is the next level of insurance.  It is the insurance that the insurance company can take out against the risk (debt) that the company holds.

 --

If everyone pays everything back, then the bank keeps their 20% profit, and each Insurance company keeps their $1100 per month, and everyone is happy.  Most importantly, the $550,000 ends up back in the bank.

The actual answer: **The only thing that is taxable here is the $1100 per month insurance premiums and the 20% profit from the original bank loan.  All of that is already taxed.**

 --

If somehow half of those comic buyers cannot pay their loan, everyone pays out insurance (but only for the amount lost - half of it) until the last insurance company that had offered a CDS against that debt.  Even here, everything is fine.  The insurance company that holds the last CDS pays out $275,000, and hopefully the payments from other things they insure will cover that cost.

When insurance companies cross-sell CDS to each other, AND start selling CDS to customers who do not even own the debt they are insuring, the risk multiplier can get very, very high.  But that is the story of the 2008 financial crisis.

 --

I am a software development manager for a company that curates and sells financial data on various types of debt (including bank loans and credit default swaps).  I am not a finance person, but I've been working with the data for over a decade.  Please note that in ELI5 tradition, I have simplified some things, and left out lots of useful details that do not directly affect the answer to this specific question.

Question: Why do so many countries simply have 3 vertical or horizontal stripes as a flag?
Answer: For most of history, flags were considerably more complex. Back then, a noble house would make a flag that symbolized their wealth and power, so they would go all out, spending on it like a modern wealthy family spends on cars or gardens.

The tricolor comes from the needs of the French Revolution. Before that, nobles had banners, and they could afford to spend considerable money on each. But a peasant revolution needs it's flags on the cheap.

Once your nation needs to make a flag for every household, having an ornate crown, some lions, a coat of arms, and a hundred fleur de lis on your flag becomes financially impossible.

Question: If all dogs are the same species, how can there be so many different and diverse breeds?
Answer: We've spent thousands of years breeding dogs for specific purposes, leading to a wide diversity of shapes suited to those purposes. Then in the last hundred years or so we've started "ultra typing" these dogs, picking those traits that we think define a breed and selecting them to the extreme. 

They are all the same species because they are all still very similar physically and genetically, despite some major external differences. Most importantly they can all still interbreed.

Question: Near Sighted and Far sighted
Answer: Take a set of binoculars and look at something far away and focus them properly. Now put a book in front of the binoculars and try to read it. You can't because it's blurry.

Similarly, if you are far-sighted, the lens in your eye does not focus properly on things that are close to it.

Question: Why is it that most people write in blue, but we print all books etc. in black?
Answer: As a lawyer, I always want my clients to sign documents in blue. It is a carry over from photocopying - photocopy is black  &  white, so a blue signature is "original". Of course this doesn't really apply as much now that everyone has color copiers but we still maintain the practice. 

But, because of this practice, all of my writing in done in blue - I don't even have a black pen in my office.

Question: What happens in the body when you get swollen and how does the swelling go away?
Answer: Swelling is interstital fluid entering the area. It's different than bruising  which is blood underneath the area of injury. The lymphatic system regulates the swelling and pulls that fluid out of the area eventually. However, in some cases it doesn't happen in certain spots as well which is why you see people with ankles that are permanently swollen

Question: How do trains stay on their tracks?
Answer: Basically because the wheels aren't perfectly cylindrical, they are cone shaped, the outer side is a smaller diameter than the inner side.  This means that the weight of the train and the difference in rotation speeds between matched wheels forces continuous position adjustments that keep the train centered between the rails.

Also, when a train is coming to a corner the speed is carefully controlled to prevent excessive lateral g-forces that would cause the train to tip and the rails are very carefully banked in curves, just like you see on highway ramps.

Question: Why do medicine commercials list all the bad/crazy side effects on TV?
Answer: They have to. They are required by law (how much they have to say depends on where you live though).

Question: why my computer speakers go spastic every time i get a call on my phone
Answer: Your mobile phone communicates with the phone network using electromagnetic radio waves.

One feature of electromagnetic waves is that when they pass through a wire, they create an electric current in the wire.

This is what's happening. The phone is generating electromagnetic waves so it can communicate with the phone network. These waves are creating electric currents in the wires that go to your speakers - only small currents, but they are there. Your speakers amplify these currents and convert them into sounds.

Question: Two people with no knowledge of each others language learning each others languages.
Answer: So I read a book that had something like this involved. It was about an American family going into their cabin, the son and father go first to make sure everything is ok. Then, the mom, daughter and baby get sick so the father goes bak home to help them, anyway, the boy met a Native American "tribe" or "family" I don't quite remember. They would communicate by first doing sign language (not really but hand signals) then pick up items and objects and say their names. Basically teaching each other from scratch. That's how I believe they would


TL;DR: using objects, hand gestures and emotions to learn their language. 

Hope I could help

Question: How to build a good bridge?
Answer: before building anything physical you'd want to run all the math to make sure no details are missed about what parts are built and what forces will be endured.

There's also vibration, oscillation. That can cause forces other than what's planned which bend and strain the bridge materials.

Metals will be alloyed to change the force they can endure for tension or compression. Equations will show what factors are involved like length and surface area and the specific cross-sectional area matters too. A square-ended beam won't be the same as a flat-slender beam , same that you'll get a different profile out of an I-beam for how it can bend or twist or resist bending or twisting.

For bridges there's specific equations but there's also something called finite element analysis : FEA. With FEA you break down the structure into much tinier elements in 3D.

There's some complicated reasons to decide on what those little shapes will be, like a prism, a tetrahedron, a cube, but when the computer's done it will figure out the strain all around the bridge so you can verify if it's in safe limits or not safe.

Something else interesting is the connecting joints. Are they welded? Are they riveted? Are they bolted?

If a connection fails the bridge fails. There's all sorts of dynamics about how a bolted connection of beams could fail because the bolts are too weak or a plate is pushing at an angle and putting far too much strain on just 1 bolt or 1 row of them... or the plate rips or buckles because it is not thick enough even though all the beams are actually totally fine, and bolts too. There's an equation for that too.

Those plates are called gusset-plates.

On your way to figuring out forces on each beam and then at/through each joint is called the "method of joints" but there's a lot more going on.

Best I can understand the vibration stuff has to do with something called "eigenfrequencies" and you need to figure it out, somehow, so you know the forces of tortion, standing waves, is either small enough not to break your bridge or big enough you have to add more structure support to damp the vibration or directly oppose it.

Check this out: _URL_0_

I'm no expert but it looks like there was insufficient support to keep the under-surface "rigid enough" and also the suspension bridge may have been very able to lift UP the bridge (opposing force in equilibrium for a stable road) but if the road is lifted higher by something else (strong wind, and standing wave) there's nothing (or almost nothing) to hold the road DOWN (no opposing force)

Question: where does the expression "you only use 10% of your brain" come from?
Answer: I learned just yesterday that this myth comes from a misunderstanding of a William James quote. Here's a pretty interesting [TedTalk] (_URL_0_) that explains!

Question: I know penny auctions are a rip but why are they a rip off?
Answer: Let's say you and 10 other people have 500 pennies. 

Up for auction is a pack of bubble gum with a retail value of $1.00.

The bidding starts at 1 penny. 

You have a legitimate chance to buy the gum for 1/100 of its retail value. 

You bid a penny. Someone else bids two pennies. Ok, now you can outbid the last guy if you bid three pennies. $0.03 for something that has a value of $1.00 is a pretty good deal. So, you bid 3 pennies. 

Two things have also happened that are not the "norm" for auctions. The first is that win or lose, you will not get either bid back. You have surrendered 3 pennies. The second, your competition has also surrendered their bids. 

Let's say this goes on for a while and the current high bid is now at $0.49. The psychology of it all starts kicking in. $0.50 is still a good deal, but nothing like the price you were told you could "win" that gum for. But you've already handed over a bunch of your pennies, so you might as well play to win. So you do one more bid. You're then outbid and you give up. Someone else "wins" the gum for $0.51. 

Now the company can advertise that they have members "winning" consumer products at half off retail. And it's true.....sorta. 

If you bid 1, 3, 15, 35 and 50 pennies (and still lost), you've surrendered $1.04 for the CHANCE to get a deal. Even if 50 pennies won you the gum, you still aid $1.04 for $1.00 gum. 

The auction site just raked in multiples over what they paid for that gum. 

Also, it's widely believed these sites simply lie. They have automated systems to simply win most or all the auctions.

Question: Zero-Determinant Strategies vs. Tit-for-Tat in the Iterated Prisoner’s Dilemma
Answer: There are multiple levels you can strategize on.

You can strategize just based on the current round. The optimal strategy is then to always defect. This might make my opponent defect more in future rounds, but I don't care.

You can strategize based on the outcome of the previous round. Then the optimal strategy is tit-for-tat; if I demonstrate that I intend to go tit-for-tat, I force my opponent to cooperate more often.

What these guys did is go one step further. They're not strategizing to make their opponent give a certain result; they're strategizing to make their opponent *use a certain strategy*. The original paper claims that this strategy is better.

The article author disagrees with that claim, because if you play the new strategy against tit-for-tat it can only win by dragging down the total number of points. The new strategy does win against some suboptimal strategies, while tit-for-tat still only goes even, but the article author doesn't think that's too important, because the *amount* of points tit-for-tat gets is still often larger.

Question: Why haven't animals learnt to stay the fuck away from humans considering how often we kill them?
Answer: Those animal populations that are actively hunted do. You can tell this easily by observing deer. Deer who live in an area long enough learn when hunting season is and are much more skittish during that season. Deer also seem know when they are on land that is safe. I have often seen deer run like maniac to get away from hunters, jump a fence into non-hunting land, look back at the hunters and then calmly walk away. 

Animals are also hunted by other predators all the time. To them humans are just one more predator.

Question: How do matches work?
Answer: The tip of a match is dipped in phosphorus. Phosphorus burns when it is really hot.

You swipe a match on a rough strip, which creates friction. Friction becomes heat.

The heat causes the phosphorus to burn. The fire then uses the wooden matchstick as fuel, so it doesn’t stop burning.

Question: How does LTE/4G/3G data signals go through walls to a phone? Why is coverage "stronger" in different parts of a house?
Answer: You know how you can see through glass? That's because light waves in the visible range (430-790THz) can pass through glass. You know how you have some glass that looks green? That's because it lets green light through but not red, orange, yellow, blue, or violet. 

Radio waves are light waves too. They just happen to be a different frequency- one you can't see. Walls block the frequencies of light that we can see, but they (for the most part) let radio waves through. Think of it sort of light the green glass- they block some colors (all the ones we can see) but not all of them.

Of course, we don't exactly choose building materials based on how well they let radio waves through. So some materials block some of the signal (think of it like a dirty plastic- it lets some of the light through, but not all of it). If you have enough of materials like that between you and the cell tower, the signal gets so week that the cell phone can't distinguish it from the noise in the air. Imagine someone is trying to communicate with morse code by shining a flashlight at you. Now imagine there's some foggy glass between you and them, and it's a sunny day out- now you can't tell the difference between their light flashes and the sunlight. That's why some areas get good signal and some get worse.

Question: What is the difference between crystal and glass?
Answer: Crystal is a structure where atoms / molecules are ordered in a self-similar repeating structure. Glass is a solid substance when atoms/molecules don't form any ordered repeating structure, and the substance can be heated so it becomes more runny/~~elastic~~ less viscous, and then cooled back into a solid form.

The difference in the atom/molecule structure looks [like this](_URL_1_). (EDIT: both quartz and pure glass are the same chemical, but quartz is in crystal form and glass is not.)

When it comes to *crystal glass*, it is not actually crystal material, but it is just a variety of glass which has lead added in it so it is more shiny. Crystal glass is widely used in decorative objects [like this](_URL_0_) and in fancy glassware and chandeliers.

EDIT: Changed elasticity to viscosity as corrected by u/belortik.

Question: Why is Islam the only religion that has to defend itself against allegations of it prompting believers to violence?
Answer: Former muslim here.  
The life of Muhammed is divided into 2 phases: Mecca,  &  Medina.  
Back when he was in Mecca he didn't have much support, hence the verses of Quran were tolerant  &  accepting, like "Al-Nahl" "The Bees" verse number 125 **Invite to the way of your Lord with wisdom and good instruction, and argue with them in a way that is best.**    
Then, Muhammed left Mecca to Al-Madina "The City" A.K.A Yathreb. There, he gathered followers  &  formed a small army, so the verses of Quran began to get a little harsher  &  harsher. The verses gradually began to become "different" in a bad way, till the Quran ended by a sura called "Al-Tawba"/"Repentance" that was so violent, that Muslims don't say "In the name of Allah the merciful" before it. One verses of that sura is **O you who have believed, fight those adjacent to you of the disbelievers and let them find in you harshness. And know that Allah is with the righteous.**  &  also **And kill them wherever you overtake them and expel them from wherever they have expelled you, and fitnah is worse than killing. And do not fight them at al-Masjid al- Haram until they fight you there. But if they fight you, then kill them. Such is the recompense of the disbelievers.**  
Now, which way should Muslims follow, is it the kind verses or the killing verses?  
A famous rule in Islam is *"Abrogated verses"/"Copied verses"* (that's the most approximate translation I could think of for the rule title). The rule states "If 2 verses have 2 different judgments in the same topic, then follow the latter in order of date of revelation" i,e. if you a verse telling you wine is alright,  &  another telling you it's forbidden. See which is newer (which is latter)  &  follow it.  
So, in the case of violence, many imams state that violence replaced kindness, but most say that in secrecy because that looks bad.  
TL;DR, ELI5 Islam defends itself against allegations of violence because it contains violence.  
I'd like to apologize to any muslim who would feel offence, but I'm only answering the question above.

Edit: Added the word "Abrogated"

Question: Explain LI5 what is beyond Internet Service Providers
Answer: It's all about *peering agreements.*

Basically, two ISPs have an agreement along the lines of "I'll carry your traffic if you carry mine" and connect themselves to each other. Of course, there are two many ISPs for every ISP to have an agreement with every other ISP, but if you just have connections to a few major networks, they will have connections of their own which will eventually lead to anywhere on the internet.

Often, there are clearing houses for this sort of thing, like the London Internet Exchange (LINX.) These exchanges act sort of like ISPs for ISPs: in exchange for a service fee, you get a connection to LINX, which means you have a connection to everyone else who is on LINX.

For more (above ten year old level) information on how this is accomplished, try looking up *routing tables*.

Question: Why does the Fukushima plant still leak so much contaminated water into the sea?
Answer: The more important questions are what is your concept of "so much"?  And does it matter?  How much does it matter?  [Beta radiation has the weakest penetration power](_URL_0_).

Question: How can the DEA make the decision to ban Kratom in 30 days with no legislation passed by the US government?
Answer: >  With no legislation passed by the US government

But there was - **in 1970** when Nixon declared his "War on Drugs" and Congress passed the Controlled Substances Act

_URL_0_

3 years later the DEA was established with an amazing amount of unregulated power to decide what people are and are not legally allowed to put in their bodies. 

And they continue to have such wide ranging powers because in the almost 50 years since the war on drugs was officially started the US has failed to elect a Congress with the courage to end the "war".

Question: If a movie does well in the box office, who gets all of the money/profit?
Answer: The company that produced it (Paramount, Warner Bros., etc).  The people involved with making the film are generally paid by this company, and the company gets the profit from the actual output (the movie).  I'm sure some actors and such have contracts that state that they'll get part of the profits from the film though.

Question: why do Muslims take issue with depictions of Prophet Muhammad, but seem okay with movies such as the Passion of the Christ which depict other major prophets of Islam?
Answer: We are not okay with movies such as the passion of Christ. As Muslims, we shouldn't depict any prophets, but we shouldn't get violent over it.

Question: Are the garbled words/spelling when viewing CC (Closed Caption) TV and online videos fixable?
Answer: If you're talking about closed captioning of live TV, no, it can't be fixed. They can barely keep up with typing everything the first time; no way could they go back. 

Anything that's recorded for later playback *could* be fixed, but the time and expense is rarely considered worth it, assuming you're just asking about fixing mistakes on a live show for people watching it on demand the next day or something along those lines. CC for prerecorded dramas, sitcoms, etc are usually done right the first time since they have plenty of time to do it.

Question: How do modern pop bands/pop stars start their careers? for instance lady Gaga, Katey Perry, or Imagine Dragons
Answer: I'm going to be interested in what other people here have to say, since this is a question I've been thinking about recently too.
Some things I do recall: Katy Perry supposedly started out playing shitty acoustic shows in LA, and Lady Gaga did a variety of things to start out - burlesque shows, shows in small NYC clubs, musical theatre, etc.  She also fronted a rock band for a while and on her earliest demos and even some tracks on The Fame you can still hear the rock influence - that record has a ton of guitar riffs and funky basslines (played on the actual bass), more than anything else she's done since.
I imagine both of these artists got managers as they got bigger.  Lady  Gaga probably had some connections and knew like-minded individuals since she went to NYU.  And both took more time than you'd think to really develop a marketable image. 

I don't know anything about Imagine Dragons though.

Question: Why is 0% brightness on smartphones still so bright?
Answer: I think the real reason is so that you can't turn the brightness down so low that you can't see the screen to turn it back up.

Question: How is a piece of software like "Scan/Check Disk" able to fix a piece of hardware being your "Hard Drive"? What is going on behind the scenes here and why can't the OS just fix these errors on-the-fly?
Answer: Your hard drive uses an organization system. Think of it like the index of a book, it's page numbers and table of contents too. There's way too much data to ever keep track of otherwise.

As it's working, it's constantly updating and editing this index to reflect the drive's contents. Pulling the plug before it can finish it's work leaves it potentially inaccurate, which will screw up something down the line when it tries to locate a resource and can't. So when starting up from a hard shutdown, it needs to take the time to figure stuff out and have everything organized and documented again.

Fixing those issues on-the-fly is possible in theory, but it means that a lot of applications would probably quit or time-out and throw an error message because the OS is cleaning up the mess before getting the application the data it needs. So it's better to just do it up front.

Question: Why are American cities so 'Manhattanised'?
Answer: While the population of those two cities (and many other examples) seems on the smaller size on paper, that's because you're looking at the population of only the municipality proper. This is usually a smallish area that consists of the downtown/CBD and then older neighbourhoods around it, while not accounting for the continuous urban areas directly bordering it that all function as the same city.

When you take that metropolitan area into account then the population of Boston is really 4.8 million and the population of Cincinnati is 2.1 million. Birmingham is the same way- the city itself is 1.1 million, the urban population is 2.4 million, and the metro population is 3.6 million. So these seemingly small cities with large skylines really aren't that small.

The second thing to consider is the age of the cities. US cities developed later than cities in the UK- when the post war boom occurred, blocks and blocks of 50-75 year old buildings were levelled to build parking lots, office towers, and highways. The buildings that were demolished weren't considered historic enough to preserve and the skyscraper and automobile were the way of the future. Looking back now, demolishing all of those older buildings was a disaster as they provided a rich urban environment with active frontages, a diversity of uses, pedestrian friendly scale, etc. The UK's city centres are still mostly filled with that type of structure as they were considered old and historic enough to keep around in the post war era, and the allure of the automobile did not have quite as large of an impact (although it still left its mark in many ways, such as all of the Beeching cuts to railways in the 1960s).

That brings me to my final point. While from far away mid-sized US cities may look bigger and more impressive than similarly sized UK and European counterparts, there is no question that in general they are not nearly as urban and vibrant. Those few blocks of office towers usually give way to very low density rather quickly, and are often surrounded by areas of parking lots, sports stadiums, and highway ramps.  The office districts are busy during the day, but after 5 pm everyone goes home to the suburbs and downtowns become ghost towns. Certainly nowhere close to bustling. Mid-sized European cities are usually more consistently built up, just with lower buildings. There you will be find people at all hours of the day, working, shopping, living. 

This is slowly changing in the US as of late, but the planning ideals of building huge buildings in mid sized cities surrounded by a lot of nothing is something that severely impacted urban life in many places. 

Edit: a word

Question: How did North Korea become the dictatorship it is today?
Answer: After the fall of Nazi Germany the USSR began a military campaign against Japan (the last remaining Axis power).

Soviet military forces seized Pyongyang and Kim Il-sung was installed as the leader of the Communist party.

North Korea declared itself a sovereign entity in 1948 and has been a dictatorship ever since.

Question: Are sweatshop workers better off if their factories close down?
Answer: If you're in a third world country, your other options might include:

* Farm work: You vs. the elements, back breaking work
* Mining: Sometimes in dangerous, unregulated, illegal conditions
* Waste management: Possibly dealing with dangerous waste from first-world nations such as electronics which can contain highly toxic substances
* Prostitution: STDs, possible abuse, elevated chance of being targeted for severe crime such as murder
* Crime: Well, it's illegal

Sweatshops are terrible but that's coming from a first world perspective. Many in third world countries wouldn't be able to get by that well without them.

You'd rather work in a sweatshop than in the other dangerous, even worse work conditions you could be in.

Question: Why do most people's faces swell up after crying for a long time or crying hard?
Answer: Your body is flooding your system with histamines causing inflamation, congestion, etc. in response to stress.

Question: How do trees know how long a year is?
Answer: Every plant has a time of year when they do the most growing. It's unimaginatively known as the "growing season". We can measure time using tree rings because for each species of tree there's a time of year when they start growing, and their growth is very fast, compared to a time of year when their growth is very slow or halts altogether (like in winter, deciduous trees shed their leaves and reign in energy expenditure). 

The change in growth speed between seasons (usually spring to winter) results in differences in the colour of the wood, so each "layer" of wood represents a year's growth.

Question: Why is it that in animated series, objects that can move around are drawn differently than static objects?
Answer: Drawn differently? Like the classic Wile E Coyote where you can tell that THAT rock right there is going to squish him because it's a different color? That's because when those were done animation was still printed on cels and those cels were [layered on top of each other](_URL_0_). So you'd have a background static layer that doesn't animate, you'd have a props layer, and you'd have a layer per character. The same color on different layers showed up slightly differently just because that's how it works. In some cartoons you can even see when the object is switched from one layer to another.

This effect is substantially reduced in modern fully computer animation. However, props are still often drawn at a different level of detail, because they may have to be redrawn over and over again instead of the really fancy background you only have to draw once.

Question: Why do people stop and look when there is a traffic accident ?
Answer: When we do the same mundane task over and over and over, our brain basically shuts off. We just continue doing the mundane task as a brain "sub routine" and we drift out.

Car accidents are exciting and different, it wakes your brain up. Something is happening so now you're active in your involvement in driving.

So you look at it.

Plus we are social animals and pay attention to humans in extreme situations. Just regular humanity stuff.

Question: How does swarm intelligence work? How are ants or bees smarter as a group than an individual?
Answer: Each individual has a very short list of rules.  For an ant, it might read something like, “When outside, look for food.  When you have food, release scent.  If you have no food, follow the scent.”  For any individual, these instinctive behaviors don’t appear very intelligent.  The average ant wanders around at random until he finds food and begins laying a scent trail.  But when you have a thousand of them, those individual behaviors add up so that you have a network of ants running back and forth along scent trails.  At the micro level it is chaos, but at the macro level it looks almost planned. 

There is no single individual responsible for making plans or coordinating the activity.  They have just learned or inherited a set of behaviors that resemble “If/Then/Else” statements.  They are like tiny robots, and each one only makes a very simple decision.  Each individual probably has no idea what the overall goal is.  They just repeat their programmed behavior and the next generation inherits it.  If the behavior was ineffective, they die and that failed strategy does not get passed to the next generation.

Question: What do people in big corporate legal departments do all day?
Answer: It totally depends on the corporation and the lawyer, but activities might include:

* Writing or reviewing contracts between one corporation and another
* Responding to subpoenas or information requests from the government or law enforcement - for example if the FBI is tracking a criminal, they may ask Google and Facebook for information about the person's communication, FedEx for their shipping history, United Airlines for the flights they searched for, and so on - and the legal department of the corporation may review those
* Reviewing new inventions from the corporation and filing patents on them
* Responding to cases of trademark infringement to protect the corporation's brand - i.e. by threatening another company with a lawsuit
* Defending the company in court when it's been sued

Question: Is it true that America does not negotiate with terrorists? Why not?
Answer: If you give a mouse a cookie, he's going to want a glass of milk.

If you negotiate with terrorists, it feeds the cycle that people can manipulate you by being terrorists.  Hence you get more terrorists.

Question: Why do all SUVs have a rear windshield wiper while almost every sedan doesn't?
Answer: I think it has to do with the rear window of SUV's/minivans being more vertical compared to a car which usually has a more angled back window.

Passing air wont blow the water off the suv back window the same way it would in a car.

Question: Why are aboriginal boobies not blurred on TV when other boobs in the USA are blurred?
Answer: In the United States, the government isn't normally allowed to restrict speech, including what people put on television.  There are a number of ways to get around this, but the biggest one is that free speech doesn't cover "obscenity."  What this means, though, is that the ability to block someone from, say, putting boobs on TV, is based on an argument that it is obscene.  The regulators in charge of this have basically said that showing naked people in certain contexts, like a nature special, isn't the kind of nudity that is rightly considered obscene.  It's not done just to thrill the viewers sexual appetites, and it has educational value.  It's a case by case thing, though, which is why you don't see networks trying to push the envelope, because the fines can be big.

Question: How is a game made from a totally new engine (like overwatch)?
Answer: Likely your first step is going to be how to display something, so you would code an interface to the graphics systems (we're going broad here) that tells it you want a square on the screen. Then you want to apply a specific color. Then you may want to be able to put a specific design on it. You slowly (and painfully) build up the different things you can do.

Add the option to click on it with your mouse, resize it, transform it (move one or more corners so it isn't a perfect square anymore). Have it pass through another square, slowly change it's color. Each of these are incremental steps, and takes time and effort, but once done you have an engine.

At this point you have some basic display components. But when it comes to building a full engine there are so many different components that it is a very complicated job.

The next step is actually to figure out the rules you want to live by, and there is almost always some give and take. The decisions are usually made with a thought to processing power.

Do you want to have 20,000 moderately detailed objects on screen or do you want to have 1,000 very detailed objects?

Do you want to be able to interact (shoot/see/hear) objects from miles away or just the closer ones?

How realistic do you want your lighting? Should light reflect of different surfaces based on the material of that object? Do you want some items to be fully or even partially transparent?

Are sounds limited in volume by distance only or does architecture and walls make a difference? Just like lighting, do you have certain materials muffle noise more or less than others?

Do you want realistic physics or a more relaxed system? For example do you want objects to have terminal velocity at different rates due to air resistance/mass restrictions or just assume they all reach the same terminal velocity.

Do you want weather effects? Curved surfaces? line of effect or just line of sight?

Each decision adjusts both the processing power needed and the complexity of the code.


For many games the type of game (as mentioned by FuzzyCats) can  help with these decisions. A racing game will probably need better physics modelling than a platformer. 

Once these are decided, it boils down to programming, you have a series of problems and you find solutions to them.

Question: How can companies not have nutritional information on their food?
Answer: There are a few exceptions to the rules about labeling. If you're buying it from the company that makes it, then it probably falls under the "Delicatessen-type food, bakery products and confections that are sold directly to consumers from the location where prepared" exclusion. 

There are a few other exclusions, including items that are given away rather than being sold, and items marked "Not labeled for individual sale."

[More info here.](_URL_0_)

Question: Why has Iran so quickly reversed its footing on its nuclear program?
Answer: The latest sanctions on the Iranians have effectively crippled the countries economy to a point that is essentially unsustainable and will only get worse if they continue on their current course. The Iranians have come to the table and accepted very large concessions about their nuclear program in order to ease these sanctions temporarily. 

There also is a growing shift in Iran away from actually creating the bomb and instead just becoming nuclear-latent which means just getting to a point where they could quickly create one if they ever would need to.

Question: Aren't Christian faith healers and self-proclaimed "prophets" blaspheming? Is it not against Christianity to claim to be able to personally provide access to God and salvation?
Answer: Well, blasphemy means either insulting a god, or claiming to have the powers of a god. Those wouldn't necessarily apply: the Christian Bible has many stories of people with powers of prophecy and healing.

But from a religious point of view, the obvious question is: Do they actually have the gifts of healing and prophecy? The answer is: Pretty much definitely not, and in any case many of these people have been exposed as frauds. They deliberately lie, in other words: they use simple conjuring tricks to make it appear as if they are performing miracles, and they know full well that they don't really have the gifts they claim to have.

This makes them not blasphemers, but false prophets. And the Bible has nasty things to say about false prophets: Deuteronomy 13:1-5 says such people must be put to death (surprise, surprise).

The New Testament also contains warnings about false prophets, who will try to deceive the faithful. The best-known passage is Matthew 7:15-23 which calls them "wolves in sheep's clothing" (that is, outwardly they appear to be your friend, but in fact they will destroy you), and suggests that you look at their deeds: "Do people pick grapes from thorn bushes, or figs from thistles?" Basically, if a self-proclaimed prophet turns out to be a philandering tax dodger, he's probably a false prophet (assuming you didn't already guess that from the very fact that he claimed divine powers in the first place).

Question: Genetic Dominance
Answer: An allele is a particular version or form of a gene. Dominant alleles usually are the version of a gene that codes for a particular protein, and recessive alleles are usually coding for an absent or non-functional protein. 

So consider something like lactose intolerance. You only need a few lactase enzyme proteins to digest milk sugar, so it doesn't matter whether 100% or 50% of your cells have the allele that makes lactase (i.e. doesn't matter if you're LL, lL or Ll), as long as some cells can do it. But if you have no copies of that allele that makes lactase as an adult (i.e. if you're ll), you are intolerant to milk sugars. So we say lactase tolerance is dominant and lactase intolerance is recessive.

But not all traits work like this. Sometimes (actually most of the time) it *does* matter if only 50% of your cells have the dominant allele and make that protein. Like in the snapdragon flower, if you have two alleles for making red pigment (RR) then the flower is red, if you have none the flower is white (rr), but if you have one (Rr or rR) the flower is halfway between white and red - it's pink! This is called **incomplete dominance**.

Some other genes have alleles that both make different but still working versions of a protein. For instance, human blood types are determined by a gene that has three different alleles, one that makes a functional *I^A* version of the protein, one that makes a different but still functional *I^B* version and one which is recessive (doesn't make anything functional) so is given the lowercase letter symbol *i*. So you can say that *I^A* and *I^B* are **co-dominant** because they're both doing things, which means people can have AB bloodtype (*I^A I^B*) as well as A bloodtype (*I^A I^A*) or B bloodtype (*I^B I^B*) or O bloodtype (*ii*).

I hope that answers your question. Feel free to ask me for clarification.

Question: Our body fight diseases by increasing the temperature, why betraying it by cooling ourselves down?
Answer: Your body is a house, pathogens are a thousand and thousand of cockroaches ramping on the floor.
Fever is basically the house habitant (immune system) being like "Oh fuck it, let's burn the fucking house down".

It's super effective but it can be very damaging, when a fever isn't really high, doctors usually advice to let it go and wait for it to decrease, when it raises to 103°F (40°c) and keeps increasing, it's time to stop the fever because it's going to do more harm than good (I think you start getting convulsion around 105 °F or 41°c and risk brain damage if it increases further).

Question: How does too much salt increase blood pressure?
Answer: [It's not entirely clear that it does.](_URL_0_) High levels of sodium consumption (sodium being the half of the table salt molecule, NaCl, that's relevant here) have traditionally been associated with hypertension (i.e., high blood pressure). But recent research indicates that the relationship between sodium intake and hypertension is not nearly so straightforward as once believed.

Question: Why do people in movies automatically bleed through the mouth when they are injured in the belly area? It's something that happens in real life?
Answer: It's possible but not too common. If someone is stabbed or shot in the stomach, most of the blood would drain down, not be coughed up.

However, if someone is stabbed in the lungs, it's definitely more possible. There's a lot of blood vessels in your lungs and you could definitely see people coughing up blood in that case

Question: When and why did humans begin to wear clothing?
Answer: When is tricky. Clothing is unlikely to survive as long as other tools, so we can't say with certainty that the earliest tool-users (Australopithecus) didn't wear furs or other clothing.

As to why? That's also tricky. There's no historical or archaeological record of early clothing, so your guess is as good as anyone's. Common guesses include for warmth, for religious ceremonies, or to display dominance by wearing furs as trophies.

Question: Why is it rude to ask people how old they are?
Answer: Society seems to have an ideal age to look like (somewhere around 21-25), and everyone is always trying to look as close to that age as possible. Asking someone their age destroys any and all effort they've put into that attempt to appear closer to that ideal age.

Question: why to we have a divot beneath our noses and above our mouths.
Answer: It is a seam left over from when you were formed in your mothers womb.

Question: ELI5: What are the best explanations of how to visualize an atom?
Answer: How about:- 

A small fuzzy ball that you can't quite see surrounded by a larger fuzzy cloud of stuff that you also can't quite get a fix on.

Question: - Why do my teeth get a funny feeling when I have to pee really badly?
Answer: I definately have experienced this and ive talked to many other people who have as well. Ive even heard it refferred to in a book, i cant remember the book at all unfortunately.  I remember character used the phrase "i have to pee so bad my teeth are floating" or something to that effect.  Ur def not alone dude

Question: What is lag?
Answer: Every time you move your avatar you push a button. It takes time for the button push to register from your keyboard to your computer, from your computer to the internet, from the internet to the game servers, the change in avatar location takes time to go from the server to the internet, to others computers. 

There are thousands of changes going on at any instant, some peoples internet connections are not fast enough to send and receive all changes. The inability causes lag, not all changes are sent or received. Instead of seeing an avatar take four steps, you get jumps, only showing two steps. 

People causing these jumps slow down the game for everyone else, so if there is too much lag, the server kicks you for everyone else's benefit. This is lagging out.

Question: why the US and many other western countries were not on Bashar al-Assads side, but rather wanted to take him down, when his enemies are apparently ISIS. Shouldn't the west support the enemies of ISIS?!
Answer: The Syrian Civil War isn't simply Assad vs. ISIS.  There are many other factions involved, including Hezbollah, Kurdish forces, many (small, disorganized) various anti-Assad rebels, and Israel.

[This map](_URL_0_) might help.

That's why the west struggled with how to handle Syria - none of the opposition groups were organized and moderate enough to choose a side.  Unlike Libya, where there was a single moderate/organized resistance army.

Question: If the United States got invaded today, what would happen?
Answer: By who, aliens?

There is no country in the world that has the projective military power of the US.  With their air and missile defenses, it is unlikely any country besides Mexico or Canada could get military forces anywhere near the mainland.

Without being more specific, it is not a question that can be answered.

Question: What does "Depraved Heart Murder" mean?
Answer: You may be interested in the following thread. There are some bad answers in there, but a few comprehensive ones and discussion following.

_URL_0_

Question: The difference between private healthcare and public healthcare
Answer: I'm not 100% on the Australian system, but this should basically explain it:

Public healthcare is a hospital. Lots of different patients, many doctors and nurses. Partially paid for by the government.

Private healthcare is a called a practice. It's a lot smaller, and often targets one specific type of patient, e.g. those who need a knee replacement. 

# 
## Warning: complicated stuff below that explains the underlying 'problem' with private practice.
# 
To understand why private practitioners make so much money, it's important to understand the following. 

Hospitals can do two types of treatment: treatment that makes them money and that costs them money. Insurance companies are not willing to pay the huge costs for cancer treatment for a patient directly. It'd mess up their statistics or something. So if that treatment costs 10X money, they get 2X from the insurance and have to pay the rest themselves. To be able to pay that treatment they need money, so they 'overcharge' the insurance companies for the 'cheap' treatments (note: this is all regulated and consensual). So instead of charging X (the cost), they charge 2X. So they make 1X profit per treatment to cover for the expenses of cancer treatment.

A private practice offers only specific types of treatment- and you guessed it- those who make money. Since they don't need the excess amount to cover for radiation therapy, they can charge less than 2X and still more than 1X. Result: they make more money, whilst being cheaper for the insurance companies. That results in more patients being sent there, and less 'cheap' patients to the hospital. Eventually the hospitals will no longer be able to pay for the expensive treatment if this continues.

That's why doctors often dislike private practitioners- they're money wolves and mes sup the system at the same time.

Question: what is going on in your body when you get paranoid/anxiety attacks/vomitting when you smoke too much weed?
Answer: If you were 21 instead of 5, and happened to be visiting a state like mine with legal recreational cannabis,  I might recommend you try an indica instead of a sativa.

Question: Academic Probation, and University transferring help
Answer: Just pointing out that questions like these are *exactly* why your school has assigned you an advisor. They are very helpful and can usually answer questions about specific universities in your area and offer advise on how to tailor your studies towards transferring to the program you want at the school you're looking into.

Question: Glasses
Answer: Glasses are just lenses. What lenses do is they change the direction of light (which travels in a straight line) that passes through them. Specifically, light that passes through different parts of the lens has it's direction changed by a different amount. When light is coming from more or less the same direction (like from an object you are looking at), the light from different parts of the object passes through different parts of the lens, and the direction changes. The **image** of the object (what you see when the light finally hits your eyes and goes to your brain) looks different because the lens changed the direction of the light. You can see this easily if you hold a magnifying glass up and look around you, and see that some objects look different, or distorted or smaller, or even upside down or far away. But also some objects that are close look bigger, or closer than they really are. This is all because the light coming from these objects is being changed by a different amount, which changes the image you see.

Your eyes have lenses. Their job is to project the **image** of what you are looking at to the correct part of your eye so the sensors can take the light and send it to the brain which makes sense of what you are looking at. If someone needs glasses, it means the lens in their eye, for one reason or another, is not projecting the image onto the correct part of the eye, which means that things look out of focus. This is corrected by using glasses which change the direction of the light before it reaches the lenses in your eye, so that when it hits the lenses in your eye it the light is redirected to the correct parts again. However, if your glasses are not in the correct position (not in front of your eyes) then the light that enters your eyes from the glasses is no longer in the correct direction again, making the objects seem different, or smaller, or out of focus. 

TL;DR: Glasses change the direction of light that passes through them, which changes the image you see of objects behind them.

Question: Why do children instinctively like cartoons ?
Answer: I think it's less that kids 'instinctively' like cartoons, but rather that producers understand what kids will like and cater to that. Cartoons are a big part of that, obviously, but also live action shows like teletubbies, yo gabba gabba, and sesame street, for example.

Question: What is happening in C# when I call a method?
Answer: By "out" value, do you mean the return value of a method, or the `out` variable created by something like `Int32.TryParse()`? They are not the same: `TryParse` does not return the parsed integer, but a boolean (`True` or `False`) depending on if the parsing of the string entered as the first argument was successful or not. So in the following example:

    int number;
    result = Int32.TryParse("1337", out number);

`result` will be equal to `True` and `number` will be an `int` with a value of 1337, whereas in this example:
    
    int number;
    result = Int32.TryParse("nifty kittens!", out number);

`result` will be `False` and `number` will be 0.

So, the method *sets* the value of an `int` (the "out" value), but *returns* a boolean to reflect success or failure of the parsing. Make sense?

As for your problem of pasting code, you need to *read* the code first. Maybe you haven't declared a variable that you are using? Try an IDE if you aren't using one already, either [MonoDevelop](_URL_0_) (for Mac/Linux/Windows) or [Visual C# Express](_URL_1_) (Windows only, or VMWare/Parallels/VirtualBox, though YMMV with that. I use it's big sister, Visual Studio, in Parallels, works reasonably well). Either program will tell you what is missing. Both free (beer), though naturally only MonoDevelop is open source, if you care about that, which you should. (I only use VS because I have to. :/)

Question: what exactly is vibrational and chassis tuning when automakers are testing vehicles and concepts?
Answer: Everything has a resonant frequency, the pitch where the whole structure will vibrate and generally cause problems for people in or near the thing.

Bridges sometimes collapse (for example) because the wind or the people walking across it match the resonant frequency and amplify it until the structure fails.

In cars, there are certain predictable speeds and engine settings and yadda yadda yadda corresponding to city, highway, neighborhood driving conditions. If those conditions produce vibration in the chassis, it will be heard (and disliked) by the people in the car, and in truly bad cases, it could cause bolts or other pieces to shake loose, creating a hazard on the road.

Question: Why do most drones have four spinning instead of three?
Answer: I'm assuming you are talking about the rotors here and not the wheels or anything else, since you haven't stated it.

With rotor aircraft the ideal set up is to have an even number of rotors, be that 2 or 4 or 8. The reason for this is gyroscopic torque, the same reason a helicopter (1 rotor, odd number) needs a tail rotor.

If you have an even number of rotors, you can set them to rotate in opposite directions and the torque forces will cancel each other out. With an uneven number you need a tailrotor to counteract the uneven torque forces.

Question: How does someone end up owing thousands in back taxes?
Answer: Easy. Your W-2 was't filled out right and didn't automatically withdraw enough taxes. Then come tax time you owe thousands of dollars because you didnt pay enough during the year. However you didnt realize this was happening and don't have the money to pay right away.

Boom back taxes.

Question: why is there a calm before the storm?
Answer: There isn't always, but when there is it is because when the warm, dry, stable air rolls in it 'calms down' the rest of the air.  

Source:[how stuff works](_URL_0_)

Question: Dyslexia
Answer: First, disclaimer if I am not doing this right.  But I just created a reddit account and this is my first comment.  I had/have dyslexia too.  I had a very difficult time learning how to speak, read, and write (in that order).  From 2-12 grade, I had to study for hours after school (w a tutor up to grade 6).  With extreme repetition repetition repetition and tenacity, I pulled it together, and now it's almost like I never had dyslexia in the first place.  So I would classify my dyslexia as "regular" and not "severe."  Btw, I think you might mean "severe," rather than "sever." But I knew what you meant.  Us dyslexics often make those mistakes.  I used to use the word "pacific" to mean "specific."  I was in 10th grade before I figured that one out.

Question: How does our brain create a mind?
Answer: This is a question no one knows the answer to, there are plenty of theories about what it could be though.

Question: Where does deleted data go?
Answer: Imagine the device you are saving your data to as a library with a special place for each book and an index list that tells you in which book you have to look for a specific information (piece of data). Now when you delete data, usually only the entry on the index list is removed, the book is still in place. If, in the future, a new book is brought into the library (new piece of data, e.g. installing a new game) a new book might be placed where the old book is, overwriting it. Then the old data is actually gone.

Now you have to know that there are special librarians who can go into the library without an index list, look at all the books that are there and build a new index list, including books (pieces of data) that you thought to be deleted. (Which means if you accidentally delete something and empty your trash bin, you may still be able to recover it!)

If on the other hand you want to make sure that it is unrecoverable, you will need to hire another special librarian (another program) to go into the library and explicitly place a new book full of nonsense where the old book used to be. (just search for true delete software or something similar to find something).

Still, even the deletion librarian can leave traces that can be interpreted by special forces librarians. If you want to truely make sure that no data can be read ever again, you will have to go full library of alexandria on your harddrive and destroy it (strong magnets for HDDS, physical force and shredding for SSDs)

Question: lack of guilt
Answer: Could be any number of things, such as:

1. The way they were raised.  If "white lies" were seen as okay when they were growing up, they are unlikely to feel guilty about them later in life.
2.  Habit.  If they do something "wrong" a lot, the mind adjusts to it and no longer causes feelings of guilt.  That is why some people can do a bad thing once and feel guilty, but do the same thing later and feel fine.
3.  Self-justification.  This is probably the biggest one.  Humans do not like to feel guilty, it's uncomfortable.  So, instead of realizing we did something wrong, we explain our way out of feeling bad.  (e.g. Telling someone you'll meet them for lunch and then not showing up.  "I really would have gone if x, y, or z hadn't come up.  I was just too busy.  I don't like them that much anyway.")


Also, don't forget that people often "lie" unintentionally.  People *mean* to do a lot of things that they don't accomplish.  I can promise and swear to do something for you at a certain time, but if something more important comes up or there's an emergency, that promise is likely to be broken.  I had every intention of doing the thing I said, it just didn't happen for whatever reason.

Question: How are random product/reward codes generated?
Answer: Lets assume for a moment the key is comprised of just uppercase letters. This allows for 26 options for each character of the key, giving a total of 26^25 possible combinations. 26^25 is about 2.3\*10^(35) total, or about 3.2\*10^(25) (that's 32,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000) possible combinations *for every living person on Earth*. So no, we probably won't run out of codes soon.

Sometimes the keys follow a certain pattern, that allow the program to validate them (so that not every 25 character combination is valid). For example, the last 5 characters in the key might be created using a function of the first 20, so it's easy to check whether the key is valid by applying this function and comparing the result. This reduces the possible number of combinations, but there's still a lot of them ("just" 26^(20) instead of 26^(25)).

The code is produced by a pseudorandom number generator. As to how these work, well that's another question altogether, [which has been asked here many times](_URL_0_).

Question: Can you get a computer virus if you go to a site but don't click anything? Or stream a video but don't download it?
Answer: Yes.  A site could have javascript that downloads or installs things, or if it uses flash, you could have an out of date version that's susceptible to an exploit in what you're watching.

To stream something, you have to download it.  Think of a download like going and buying a book to take home, and a stream as getting pages in the mail, reading them, and throwing them out as soon as they're read.  You're still getting the content.  If it's a reputable site, you're usually pretty safe, though.

Question: If my allergy to dust has evolved to make me sneeze/cough/runny nose why should I take drugs to counter that? Does it not serve a similar function of pain or smell in letting me know of something that is harmful?
Answer: Allergies occur when the immune system responds to a stimulus which does not require an immune response. It's essentially an error, or, maybe more accurately, an overreaction to something that is not actually harmful. You take the medicine to alleviate the symptoms you are suffering from something that shouldn't occur.

Question: How is it someone can do 100 squats but can't run but a few miles?
Answer: ELI5: bulldozers can lift tons of weight but can't go fast. They are built for one thing and they do other things not as well. Race cars can go fast but can't lift tons.

Question: Situation in Yemen right now.
Answer: The situation in Yemen is a bit crazy and alliances are changing in a very unexpected way. I'll try to make this as short as possible since I'm only taking a break from studying for finals.


**Before the Arab Spring:**

* The Ali Abdullah Saleh Regime is an ally of Saudi Arabia
* The Houthi movement is an ally of Iran
* Saleh regime and the Houthi had multiple wars in which both of them were supported by their allies
* Also, the houthi had a short-lived war with Saudi Arabia (on the southern border of SA)
* *Conclusion: Saudi Arabia  &  Saleh are against Houthi  &  Iran*


**Arab Spring Outcome:**

* Saleh regime was thrown and replaced by a new government (honestly I don't remember what this government is called so new government will do for now)
* *Conclusion: the situation is still the same as the previous conclusion, but the twist is that a new player was thrown in, the new government. This player is not best friends with Saleh and Saud Arabia (the latter because they just lost an ally). Houthi was kinda okay with the new government (they threw Houthi's enemy at least).*


**Present Time:**

Depending on the side you ask, the Houthi might have taken control of the capital because *either* (a) they believe the new government is not making any progress in bettering the conditions in Yemen *or* (b) it is part of the Irani plan to get more control in yet another Arab country. Anyway, though the post-Arab-Spring government is still in power, Houthi is the de facto ruler. Finally, I do not believe Houthi was mainly fighting AlQaeda (assuming that's what you mean by AQ), AlQaeda didn't play a huge part in this story.


**The question is, why is not Saudi Arabia saying, let alone doing, anything about their 'enemy' the Houthi taking over the Yemeni capital, which meant Iran (another 'enemy') is on the Saudi southern border now?** 


It seems to be a situation of "my enemies enemy is my friend." Their have been talks about the Saleh regime and Saudi Arabia 'letting' and helping Houthi get rid of the post-Arab-spring government in hope that Saleh regime comes back to power soon. 


This is much longer than I expected it to be lol hope it helps clarify the situation more to you though I know I didn't answer all your questions.


Edit: formatting (a lot of it ;) )

Question: Why is there no tri-core processor (3x)?
Answer: /u/shawnaroo almost had it right.  Integrated Circuits (ICs), due to the way they are manufactured, are *rectangular* in shape.  And when you put multiple copies of something as big as a core on a chip, you essentially do a "cut and paste" (almost). You also don't (usually) want to make a chip a lot longer than it is wide, or vice versa. So it is easy to see that you are usually going to try to make *even* numbers, since they are going to be arranged in rows and columns. (Not necessarily powers of 2.) Although sometimes (if the cores are fairly small) you might put some of the overhead circuitry in place of one of the cores, so your total number of cores would be an even number minus 1. 

  
As someone else mentioned, you might do various numbers when you try to make an even number of cores but one or more have manufacturing defects and are disabled.  
  
There's another trend going on right now for multi-core parts for mobile applications.  Some chips use one "wimpy" core and multiple "strong" cores.  That way, when the phone isn't doing much it can just use the wimpy core and conserved battery power, but when it needs more "ooph" it can utilize some of the higher performance cores.    
  
There are chips available right now for things like network processing that have a lot of cores.  For example, Tilera has a 72-core processor.

Question: What laws prevent the majority stockholder of a corporation from just giving away the corporation's assets?
Answer: They're not her property. You can't give away property belonging to someone else. Even if that person is a legal fiction you have majority control over.  
The majority stockholder *could* push the board to give away assets, but that would likely be a breach of the board's [fiduciary duty](_URL_0_) to the minority stockholders. The board should overrule the majority stockholder on those grounds. 

To do it legally, the majority stockholder should vote to disband/liquidate the corporation. Assuming the motion passes the net assets will be distributed among the stockholders, and now that some of them are her property the majority owner can give those away at will.

Question: where does that style of writing that graffiti artists always use come from, and why do so many of them use it?
Answer: Grab a can of spray paint and start trying to write. With very thick lines created by the wide spray you are limited in the legibility if you don't write like that.

Question: What are undeclinable requests like, 'Could you get the door for me?' called and how do they work from a linguistic or sociological standpoint?
Answer: This type of language is used in sales pitches and marketing around the world.  Opinion polls and surveys and questionnaires too.

It's called a "Leading Question".

It's a form of persuasion and it's something we just pick up - we all do it, subconsciously.  Some people (stage magicians, salespeople etc) study it and make use of it.

So you have open ended questions like "How was your day?"  That could be a simple "Fine, thanks" through to a long conversation.  You have closed questions like "Is your favourite colour red?"  That's either a yes or a no.

Once you agree with someone over something, you're more likely to be agreeable to other suggestions.  So you start off with "Do you have a minute?"  - yes.  So you're already opened up and more likely to be receptive to them.

Then they ask for a favour.  If they just came up to you and said "can you pick up that dead lizard?" you might say no and walk away.

By you already stopping and acknowledging them, you're already more likely to assist.  And they don't just ask you to pick up a dead lizard, they explain that they can't - they need *your* help.  

Now you feel special, even subconsciously - wanted and appreciated - so you do the good deed.

That's the psychology behind it - it's not always planned out as intricately as that of course - I doubt the co-worker went through that line of reasoning in their head before asking.

These links may be of interest to you and somewhat related:

_URL_1_

_URL_2_

_URL_0_

A more comedic example (and a slight TL; DR) of leading questions and persuasion can be found here: _URL_3_

We learn this as kids in a very basic way:

"Mummy, I love you a lot can you buy me some chocolate?"

"Mummy" - get's mum's attention.  "Yes?"

"I love you a lot" - comes out robotic but mothers are programmed to respond :D

"Can you buy me some chocolate?" - might still get a no, but more likely to say yes.

It's a form of bribery.  Pay the compliment, Clean your room, Do the Dishes, then ask for the increase in allowance.

As we get older it becomes more subtle to the point of the OP - "Do you have a minute?" or "Hey how's it going?" - they don't expect an answer anything other than "yes" or "fine" but the underlying psychology is still that of a kid that wants chocolate (lizard removed).

OP talks about an "undeclinable request" - well, asking for someone to remove a dead lizard is very declinable, if they come up to you and just flat out ask.  Put in the leading question at the start and it's a very different social dynamic.  And it's something we learn as babies :)

HTH.

Source - I'm stoned.

EDIT: u/cat-penis also has a further explanation in his reply

Question: The Maccabees
Answer: A rebellion against Greek rule by Jews in the 160s BC. The Greek king wanted to have a statue of himself in the Holy of Holies in the Tenple, the most holy place in Judaism. The Jewish population was having none of that, and managed to fight off the Greek king's army. A lantern in the Temple which was meant to never go out was running low on oil, and the remaining oil "miraculously" lasted 8 days when it should have lasted 1. This was the origin of Chanuka.

Question: What is the difference between cheap 35-49p energy drinks and red bull?
Answer: That brand costs a lot of money. They advertise the fuck out of their sugar water and sponsor crazy shit left and right.

In addition to that, RB charges more to keep the impression that the brand is better than others. There's really no reason it should cost any more than Coca Cola.

Question: what does the symmetrical group of n letters (and more specifically the alternating group of n letters) actually mean?
Answer: Hey, I sent this to you as part of our message thread, but just in case anyone else wants to see it:

Okay, so we can start with symmetric groups. Let's say you have an ordered "tuple" of n things. We'll just use 3 for brevity. We can use symbols as the things:

(a, b, c)

A *permutation* over n things is just a function whose input is a tuple of size n (or an n-tuple) and whose output is another n-tuple where all the same symbols are there, but they can be in a different order.

The most basic permutation is the identity - given a tuple (a, b, c) it returns (a, b, c). Another permutation might reverse the order:

(a, b, c) - >  (c, b, a).

There are n! possible permutations for an n-tuple. For 3, we have 3! = 6 permutations:

(a, b, c)  - the identity

(a, c, b)

(b, a, c)

(b, c, a)

(c, a, b)

(c, b, a)

There are lots of ways to write permutations. Here's an example of a way. We can just write a list of numbers that shows what position each element ends up at. So the identity permutation on 3-tuples is [1, 2, 3] because the first element (a) goes to 1, and so forth. Using this notation, the list above is:

[1, 2, 3]

[1, 3, 2]

[2, 1, 3]

[3, 1, 2]

[2, 3, 1]

[3, 2, 1]

 & nbsp;

So for the symmetric group. Recall that a group is just a collection of elements, with an operation (+), that satisfies the rules of being a group. These rules are

closure: if X and Y are in the group, X+Y is in the group

associativity: (X+Y)+Z = X+(Y+Z)

identity: the group has an element E such that X+E = E+X = X for all X in the group

inverse: Each element X has an element Y (sometimes written X^(-1)) such that X+Y = Y+X = E

 & nbsp;

We can create a group *out of these 6 permutations* (for n = 3). The "+" operation is *composition*, which just means X + Y says you permute the list using Y first, then using X. So if we want to figure out what

[2, 1, 3] + [3, 2, 1]

is, we just do both permutations (starting with the one on the right). Starting with (a, b, c), we have

[3, 2, 1] maps (a, b, c) to *(c, b, a)*.

[2, 1, 3] maps *(c, b, a)* to (b, c, a)

(Italics just to show you that we took the output of the first permutation and used it as the input to the second one.)

So [2, 1, 3] + [3, 2, 1] is just the permutation that sends (a, b, c) to (b, c, a). Well we already know this one: we called it [3, 1, 2].

You can do the same thing for any pair of permutations f and g. f + g is just whatever permutation you end up with when you apply g to the tuple, then apply f to the resulting tuple.

I'll leave it up to you to convince yourself that this is really a group. You would need to show that the 4 group axioms (listed above) are satisfied. But it turns out they are.

So that's all the symmetric group is: it's a group of *permutation* elements which re-order tuples, combined with the *composition* operator which combines permutations.

 & nbsp;

The alternating group of size n is a subset of the symmetric group of size n. It just contains all the permutations on n items which have a special property.

The property is that if you do the permutation, then count how many pairs of symbols are "out of order", this count is even. Let's look at an example on 4-tuples:

The permutation resulting in (b, a, d, c) is even, because


*a and b are out of order*

a and c are in order

a and d are in order

b and c are in order

b and d are in order

*c and d are out of order*

So two pairs are out of order, and that's an even number. Thus the permutation [2, 1, 4, 3] is even, and it is in the alternating group on 4 elements.

For 3 elements, the alternating group consists of 3 permutations (it's always half of the total possible permutations). Here are the resulting tuples from those 3 permutations:

(a, b, c) [0 pairs out of order]

(b, c, a) [2 pairs out of order: ac and ab]

(c, a, b) [2 pairs out of order: ac and bc]

(For bigger tuples, the symmetric group is more "complicated", in that it isn't always just "rotations" like we see here.)

It turns out that this subset of permutations is in fact a group, which again you may need to convince yourself of.

I know that's a lot but hopefully you can get comfortable with each step and build up to being comfortable with the end result. There's kind of no "short version" of these things, unfortunately.

Question: How can dogs smell cancer?
Answer: The current theory is that cancer cells produce characteristic organic compounds which get into the bloodstream and are then also present in the patient's breath - only in tiny amounts, but enough to  be detected by a dog's amazingly keen sense of smell.

Which compounds those are exactly is still being researched, in the hope of using the knowledge to produce test kits.

Question: Why does a multitool spin this funny way in zero gravity?
Answer: It's because the rotation about that axis is unstable, and small deviations quickly build until the pliers flip round. You can see the same effect if you throw a tennis racket in the air.

_URL_0_

Question: What does "force start" while using a torrent client actually accomplish?
Answer: In μTorrent at least, it means "Ignore download queue settings and start  right now". For instance, if you have it set so no more than X torrents will be downloading at one time, the normal Start will respect that and put lower-priority torrents on hold. Force Start lets you override that setting temporarily for a particular torrent. It doesn't have any particular meaning in the Bittorrent protocol or anything, so it might mean different things from client to client.

Question: Why can Putin openly introduce ridiculous legislation against LGBT groups, (teaching kids that gays dont exist) yet still retain global political integrity?
Answer: I don't think he has retained global integrity.  But he is the leader of his own sovereign nation, so besides going to war or using diplomatic channels to persuade him, there is nothing we can do to actually stop him.

Question: How can an area see very little rainfall but also see quite a bit of snowfall.
Answer: Several things to consider here. One is that an inch of rain can be a foot of snow. So if you get a couple of 10ths inch of rain, this could translate into several inches of snow. Another thing is that some places get rain seasonally. It may never rain in July and August, but maybe May gets most of the rain. The reason for this is different for different areas.

Arizona rain, for instance, doesn't usually fall Jan to May, and May and early June typically have some of the highest temps. June and July bring the monsoon rains, which means cloudy days reduce the chance for those 115F days. If this rain fell in central AZ during the winter, it could easily come down as snow.

Question: If radiation kills cells, and cancer is uncontrolled cell growth, then why does high-volume radiation cause cancer?
Answer: Radiation causes damage to the DNA. At a low enough dose, it will simply damage the DNA but allow the cell to live. In this case, the cell could then develop cancerous properties due to the damaged DNA, and before you know it you have cancer.

Question: Why some frequently occuring diseases like psoriasis are still incurable?
Answer: In order to cure a disease, you need to be able to (generally speaking):

* Know what causes it and how that process or processes get started and progress

* Be able to design some kind of agent that will reliably stop that process

* Have that agent not cause worse effects than the original disease

* Have there be a big enough motivation to spend either public or private funds on achieving the above steps.

You can see how in all of these there can be problems. For example, we know what causes the common cold (it's a virus infecting our nose and throat). However, we haven't invented a reliable way to stop this viral infection that wouldn't put patients at risk more than the actual disease will.

In the case of psoriasis, it's most likely what is known as an auto-immune disease, meaning it's caused when something triggers our immune system to start attacking our own body tissues. There are a bunch of different autoimmune diseases...Type 1 Diabetes involves the immune system attacking the cells of the pancreas; MS involves the immune system attacking neurons in the brain, etc. The problem is we don't know exactly why the immune cells go haywire in the first place, and figuring out a way to reprogram the entire system back to normal is really, really difficult. 

Most of the therapies we have are basically designed to suppress the whole immune system, so that it attacks our own tissues with less force. The problem then is obviously that it makes it hard for the immune system to do what it's supposed to do, which is attack infections.

People are working on research to only kill the specific immune cells that have gone "bad", but it's slow going and it takes a long time to figure these things out, especially since our understanding of these fields is pretty new.

Question: How are serving sizes on nutritional labels determined, and why are they often so much lower than a realistic amount that most people would consume?
Answer: They are arbitrary.  They are just used so you have a reference for the nutrition label. 

The smaller the serving, the healthier you food looks to unobservant consumers.

Question: Newtons Law of Cooling/Microwaves
Answer: A quick look at [the Wikipedia article](_URL_0_) reveals this quote:

 >  Finally, in the case of heat transfer by thermal radiation, Newton's law of cooling is not true

This is the key.  A microwave doesn't work by just adding ambient heat to food through conduction and convection.  Microwaves are a form electromagnetic radiation which deliver heat energy to the food by vibrating chemical bonds in molecules such as water.  This can be done very quickly.

Question: Goosebumps, what the heck are they?
Answer: Goosebumps is a series of children's horror fiction novellas by American author R. L. Stine, published by Scholastic Publishing. The stories follow child characters, who find themselves in scary situations; usually involving monsters and other supernatural elements. From 1992 to 1997, 62 books were published under the Goosebumps umbrella title. Various spin-off series were written by Stine: Goosebumps Series 2000, Give Yourself Goosebumps, Tales to Give You Goosebumps, Goosebumps Triple Header, Goosebumps HorrorLand, and Goosebumps Most Wanted. Another series, Goosebumps Gold, was never released. Goosebumps has spawned a television series and merchandise, as well as a feature film, starring Jack Black.

Question: Is there a reason why various social networks (Facebook, Twitter, MySpace, Linked In, etc.) use blue as their theme color?
Answer: You may want to take this answer with a pinch of salt because I'm not 100% sure, But I would imagine the reason why is because certain colours can physiologically change your view on things.
The colour blue is known to give a more calming, trust worthy view. I recommend reading up on [this](_URL_0_) it goes deeper into the effects of colours on our brains. its a very i interesting read!

Question: Would there be any way to "improve" the internet if we could start it all over?
Answer: Tons of stuff we could improve on.

For starters, the early days of the internet were like a small, rural community where nobody locks their cars or homes.  Many of the protocols rely on a fundamentally high level of trust.

We could build encryption into everything.  We could build out the email system in such a way that servers *don't* implicitly trust the sender to tell the truth about where the mail is coming from.  We could improve DNS to include public keys.  We could build some sort of trusted identity service into the protocols.

We could scrap the web and start from scratch with a system that's cleanly designed to do what we actually want with it.  The browser was originally designed to handle static pages with a few pictures  &  it's become a graphical, dynamic platform for thin-client applications. HTTP is a horribly inefficient protocol that we could replace with SPDY or something similar.  We could build a sane HTML/CSS replacement.  We could standardized on something more well thought out than Javascript for client-side scripting.  We'd be able to give browsers  &  servers WebSocket-like functionality that's not just a hacked-on afterthought.

We could probably make some big improvements to TCP/IP as well.  Starting with IPv6 addressing  &  probably building the system around jumbo (or larger) frames that make sense on today's high speed networks.

If you wanted to be *really* forward looking, you'd probably design a protocol for communicating with other planets that didn't require a full handshake  &  frequent acknowledgement of received packets.  If you're transmitting data over interstellar distances, a 30-minute round-trip time really gets in the way of things.

Question: when you have x^3, you can "explode" this out into x * x * x. What is happening when you take a root? Is there any way to "explode" that?
Answer: Ish.  You can view x*x*x as x^1 * x^1 * x^1.  Since sqrt(x) is x^0.5, you can do the same thing, as long as all the powers sum to 0.5, like so: x^0.5 = x^0.25 * x^0.25, or x^0.5 = x^1 * x^-0.5

Question: why does ice stick to an empty cup when you're trying to get it in your mouth?
Answer: When the ice cube melts, some water will stay surrounding the cube, "connecting" it to the cup, sorta like a vaccum.

Question: Why do DVD menus loop so poorly?
Answer: In the DVD menus the DVD players have to move back to the starting point to re-read the video, and so there is a gap where it is moving the disk.


sorry about my last comment i didn't quite understand what you were asking.

Question: Why do we make fun of France so much?
Answer: We make fun of them because we can't really control them. Britain will do whatever we say so they're our besties. France is like that cool kid who generally hangs out with you but sometimes makes you look like a complete dick by calling you out just when you think you've got the gang worshipping you.

Question: How does Cable-Modem "Turboboost" work?
Answer: In typical Internet use, most things that are transmitted down the wire to your computer are very small. Like this web page, for example. It contains a few bytes of text, and several image files that are themselves just a few bytes.

A common service offering from Internet providers is to give you *considerably* more bandwidth — in terms of bits delivered to your computer per second — for the first however-many bytes of any given data transfer, then throttle that transfer back for all the subsequent bytes to be delivered.

This is good for most people, because most of the things transferred to your computer are sufficiently small that they come entirely at that higher initial rate of data transfer. It's only when you try to get a big collection of bytes all in one go — like a movie trailer, say — that you notice the throttling.

It sounds like in your case it's based on time rather than on bytes, but the principle remains the same.

Question: What are Bayesian Statistics, and how are they used to filter spam?
Answer: Bayes theorem is a simple equation in probability theory that basically lets you calculate how likely a hypothesis based on how much evidence it has and it's prior probability.

A naive bayesian classifier is a type of machine learning algorithm that uses this equation to try to figure out the probability that a message is spam or not spam given a bunch of it's features. It starts out with a bunch of examples of messages which are spam and some which are not spam. Then when it looks at a message which it's unsure about, it compares it to them.

For example, say 70% of messages are spam. So it starts with a 70% probability that the given message is spam. Now maybe 5% of spam messages contain the word "sale" but only 1% or legit messages.

So it knows that, out of a 1000 messages, 700 are spam, 300 are not. Of those 700, 5% of them, or 35 will contain the word "sale". Of the 300 not spam messages, 1%, or 3, will contain that word.

If the message has the word sale, it has to be in one of those groups. Out of 38 messages that contain that word (out of a thousand), 35 will be spam. That is about 92% of them, meaning this message has a 92% chance of being spam.

Now it does the same thing with other words and features, except instead of starting with a 70% probability that it is spam, it starts with a 92% chance that it is spam. If it contains other words like "blowout" or "order now" that are more commonly found in spam than in not-spam messages, it will increase the probability that it is spam. If eventually it estimates it at a higher than 99%  probability that it is spam (or 99.99% or whatever you choose), it will throw it into a spam folder.

You can also use this with other features, not just words. Like the length of the message, or the number of links in it, etc. The point is to find things that are more or less likely to be found in a message that is spam than a message that is not spam.

Question: What would the US have to do to revert back to a no political party system?
Answer: There is no way.  Political parties are not part of the government.  They are a group of like-minded people who decided the best way to get what they want is to unite behind a single nominee.  Political parties are a natural result of our freedom to assemble.  Dissolving them would be a violation of the First Amendment.  Even if we did dissolve them, people would just make parties again, unless we somehow made it illegal to meet with others, discuss politics, and agree on stuff.  

If we did that, it's not really the US anymore so no, there's no way.

Question: Why haven't the USA and Russia ever gone to war?
Answer: Generally, a country will only choose to go to war if they believe that the benefits of winning are worth the losses they will take getting that victory. The thing about the Cold War is that there were very few upsides to any potential conflict and a mountain of downsides.

Question: Why does alcohol on an open wound hurt extremely bad the first time, but no pain if poured on seconds later?
Answer: The same reason you aren't constantly aware of the smell of a room or the feeling of clothes on your body: sensory adaptation. The first time you feel it, it's fresh, but past that, it stops being a new sensation and so your nerves stop sending out signals about it.

Question: how life was created, how seemingly inert atoms formed what we are today, these weird organic creatures with sentience
Answer: Those atoms aren't inert.

They react with other atoms, attaching and detaching from each other, requiring energy, releasing energy, etc.  All life depends on chemical actions to function.  Life is a natural extension of a chemically reactive environment.

Question: In this 2012 satellite photo of Berlin, you can distinguish West and East Berlin by the tone of the street lights. Why?
Answer: The East and West used different types of lights, and there's no reason to tear down perfectly good lights that are only a few decades old.

Question: Why are e-cigarettes bans becoming widespread BEFORE any conclusive studies have been done on their safety? How can you ban something that is not well understood?
Answer: It's an idea called the "precautionary principle." It says that the burden to prove safety---once there's some reason to doubt whether something is safe---is on the group that wants to introduce something, rather than on the population.  The fear is that allowing widespread use of potentially dangerous things creates incentives to downplay risks and hoodwink people into underestimating dangers until the new things becomes too ingrained to easily ban/limit. 

Obviously, there are significant costs to this approach in terms of missed opportunity and limited choices.  But it's an idea that has many supporters, particularly in areas where there is a possibility of addiction.

Question: is an animal being turned on its back the equivalent to a human being held upside down?
Answer: Not really. The main problem with turning human beings upside down is one of gravity and circulation. The human body is designed to be vertical or horizontal. Valves in the veins are designed to assist blood return from the lower body back to the heart. Between heartbeats, as gravity pulls blood downward, the valves close and blood stays there until another heartbeat pushes it higher. There is no need for such valves in the veins above the heart.

So when a human body is held upside down blood goes to the head and gravity continues to pull it downward away from the heart. There are no valves in the veins to resist gravity so when the heart is at rest, you get retrograde flow of blood back toward the head. This causes a buildup of blood and pressure in the upper body, which eventually will start to impair brain function or a clot is more likely to form and obstruct bloodflow even further.

Most animals are longer laterally than they are tall. So simply flipping a dog, cat or turtle upside down does not change its hemodynamic status very much. Just as there is not much difference in bloodflow in a human if he lays on his back or his stomach.

Question: What is the science behind TNT Pop-Its (Snap Bags)? What makes them explode when you throw them at something?
Answer: Inside the tiny bag is ~99.99% gravel or sand, the other 0.01% is a chemical called silver fulminate. It's a highly unstable chemical that ignites under any sort of friction ( by dropping, squeezing, or stepping on it). When the chemical ignites it creates a shockwave that travels faster than the speed of sound and that's where the "snap" sound comes from (kind of like how a whip makes its noise). This shockwave is extremely weak and that's why you can pop one in your hand and it wont hurt.

Question: Why Israel does not like the Iran nuclear deal?
Answer: It's simple: they know Iran is full of shit.

Question: The weird noise your eyes make sometimes when you blink, what is it?
Answer: It’s the tensor tympani muscle in your middle ear contracting. It’s sort of like the muscle pressing against the hearing bones in your ear creating a whooshing or rumbling sound

Question: Why does time asleep feel the exact same whether it's four or eight or ten hours?
Answer: I believe it has something to do with the fact that you are not conciscious when asleep, and thus any kind of recollection of elapsed time is beyond what you're brain had been doing while asleep.

Question: Red Cross told me my blood is super special because I am O-Negative, and CMV-Negative, and my 5 units of blood helped save premature babies, what is CMV-Negative, and why does it help premature babies?
Answer: Cytomegalovirus negative. It's a very common viral infection that normally doesn't produce any symptoms. However, it can be dangerous towards immunocompromised patients and can cause liver failure. By not having it you can't expose it to the premature babies, which have weakened immune systems. This reduces their chances of infection, which is good for obvious reasons.

Question: How does Reddit make money?
Answer: Advertisement (as AlxeYo pointed out, you might have an ad-blocker on), sponsored links, and reddit gold.

Question: why we can secure banking/investment accts online but we can't secure voting
Answer: The requirements are different.

Most importantly, banking information needs to be tied to the person making the transaction.  If any inconsistencies come up they need to be able to make sure they have enough identification information to trace the transactions back to the person who made them.

This is exactly the opposite in voting.  Voting has to be anonymous.  Having anonymous voting but still being able to trace the inconsistencies back is a trickier problem.  It's not impossible tho.

The real big issue is that an election screwing up and a country having a tyrant running it who is willing to fix an election to win is far, far worse than any loss of money a bank might suffer.  Electronic elections software has way more riding on it than banking software.

Question: How does Netflix make money on original programming?
Answer: Netflix is paying its rent with member subscriptions.  Whatever keeps folks paying $/month will drive their decision making.  By whatever logic, they've determined the most folks are willing to pay is $8-12/month.  That means the only way they can increase profits is to make money elsewhere or lower costs.  

Since folks come back for the content, they have to keep making/renting more.  Most of this is through purchasing broadcast licenses.  Right now they're showing Civil War.  Someone at Netflix brokered a deal with Disney for the streaming rights.  Disney knows that Netflix users REALLY want that movie, and not having it devalues the Netflix subscription.  This puts Netflix at a disadvantage for negotiation purposes, as they'll have to pay more for it.  

When their license ends, they'll have to go through the whole song and dance again to get another round of rights.  For every movie anyone puts out.    

Conversely, if Netflix makes it's own content they can keep the rights indefinitely.  No more negotiation.  If they have to spend $1mil on overhead costs just to pay for the lawyers and negotiating team to fuck around with Disney to still get stuck paying $200mil for the rights to show Civil War for a couple of months, eventually you have to wonder if someone can knock out a season of Daredevil for less than $200mil that you keep forever.  Bonus points if you get to beat Disney up for Daredevil merchandising rights.  

Also, look at their production costs for early seasons of House of Cards.  Most of that first season is shot in generic offices, homes, and landscapes.  The script was innovative, no "real" network wanted to touch it because it was a risk.  Sure the writing was really great, but bigger networks could make safer money on another round of Law  &  Order.  Netflix took the gamble, spent the money on Kevin Spacey and saved on set design and special effects.  

Consider the rest of the Netflix shows.  Most of them are relatively low budget, and spend their budget very wisely.  House of Cards NEEDS a good anchor, so you get Kevin Spacey.  Daredevil's powers are mostly invisible.  You save money not rendering lazer blasts and spend the cash on a good stunt team in glorified workout gear.  Orange is the New Black, you commit to building key rooms of the jail and use the shit out of them.  Higher startup costs, but once you have the set, Season 2 is cheaper than Episode 1.  And again, drama drives the show, not special effects.  

This also doesn't include product placement.  If your characters drive a car, use a computer, or dress fancy, Ford, Apple, and Ralph Lauren would like to influence their purchasing decisions.  Not all programs lend themselves to product placement, and not all directors can do it in a way that isn't horrible, but it is a great way to subsidize production costs.

Question: If Stephen Colbert is so marketable and millions of people watch Jimmy Fallon clips on YouTube, then why don't the networks move their shows to prime time?
Answer: these shows win against nothing.  would people tune in every night when its up against football, voice, ncis, ect ect?  I think they would struggle to garner as many viewers in primetime.

Question: Relativity
Answer: First off, relativity is hard. It screws with everything you know, it makes distances shorter and time longer and things heavier.

Basically all Einstein saw was that the speed of light was always the same. Now, that's pretty weird if you think about it. If I throw a ball at you with 30 km/h, you see it coming with 30 km/h. If I'm also running towards you at 10 km/h, you see the ball coming with 40 km/h and if I'm running away from you at 10 km/h, you see the ball coming with 20 km/h. So far, so good. Now, light is different. If I shine a beam of light at you, you think it has the speed of light. Duh. If I also move towards you at half the speed of light, how fast is the beam to you? *still the speed of light*. Our universe just works that way.

Now, that just can't work normally. Einstein said "you know, if this really works that way and physics still applies here (conservation of energy and other things must still be true), then we must probably have the following other effects:". So it's just a rigorous derivation based on an observation, namely that light always travels at the same speed. All these effects concern objects in motion.

How he derived these effects can't be explained to a five-year old, here's just an overview:

*You can't go faster than the speed of light. Ever. You can only get really, really close to it.
*The following effects depend on the viewer. That means that something can be heavier to someone and lighter to someone else, and both are still correct.
*If you observe something fast, it appears heavier.
*If you observe something fast, it appears shorter.
*If you observe something fast, time seems to pass slower there. A clock on a fast spaceship seems to run slower than one right next to you.

Now, these effects only appear when you get close to the speed of light, that's why we notice nothing of them in everyday life: We're just too slow. If you're into formulas, they all scale with the term 1/sqrt(1-v^2/c^2) (type it into WolframAlpha to have a neat formatting), where v is the speed of the object in question and c is the speed of light. For instance, a moving object's mass is its "rest mass" (mass it would have if it stood still) multiplied with this term. If you analyze this term, it's very close to one if v is small. If you accelerate to one hundredth of the speed of light, the term is 1.005, so you get 0.5% heavier and shorter. One hundreth of the speed of light is insanely fast, though.

Question: Christopher Nolan's movie, "The Prestige"
Answer: Eek - this is a tough one... I had to watch the movie twice to have it make sense... 
The Christian Bale character was actually a set of twins, but no one ever knew it - not even his wife.  They take turns dressing as the assistant throughout the entire movie. 
One of the twins was in love with the wife, the other was in love with Scarlett Johansen's character.  
Hugh Jackman spends the entire movie trying to figure out how to copy Bale's signature move, and eventually turns to "science" as a way to do that.  Eventually, he gets it to work, and kills off one of his clones every night.  Besides trying to figure that out, he also blames Bale's character for the death of his wife, and all of the trauma drives him insane.
In the end, he uses the clone machine to frame Bale's character for his murder.  He then goes on a mission to destroy his life, and Bale's character is hanged for murder.  
The end shows the assistant leaving with the little girl, but he is actually one of the twins.

Question: How is that the colors we see organize into a repetitive pattern (ROYGBIVROY...) while their physical wavelengths are linear (390-700nm)?
Answer: The issue is wavelength doesn't define color. Photons can be any single wavelength, but our eyes sense the number of red, blue and green photons (there is lots of overlap), so a single wavelength light will be one color, such as red, green or blue, that doesn't cover what you get when you have two different wavelengths at the same time. So Red and Green light added
 together is yellow, and your eye can't tell the difference between that and single wavelength yellow (since both cases are just equal amounts of red and green excitation of your eye.

The special case is purple, that is red and blue without green, on the EM spectrum halfway between red and blue is green, but if you actually mix red and blue you see [purple](_URL_1_), this color is not on the EM spectrum and does not correspond to any single wavelength. It is different because your eye can distinguish red+blue+green and red+blue without green.

To cover all the colors a human can see you need a [2D plane](_URL_0_), they don't map to a line.

Question: Why can we see the xenon atoms in the IBM logo but not the atoms of the surface they're on?
Answer: For the same reason that you can't clearly see objects far behind the subject of a photograph. The background is not in focus. That is a simplified explanation, but basically still true.

Question: What would happen to the United States if China called the debt to be paid in full within 12 months?
Answer: the debt is in bonds.  which have a set maturity schedule.   the bond holder doesn't get to dictate the terms.   only the bond creator does.

Question: What exactly happens to your debt when you die. Who is left unpaid?
Answer: All assets are usually frozen. The executor to the estate that is assigned by the state (usually identified in the will) must, by law, pay off all debt before any inheritance is given out. If no money or assets are left in the estate, the unpaid folks are out of luck !

Question: Why hasn't NSA's "Prism" database been hacked?
Answer: A common feature of secure cross network scenarios is a 'data diode' which literally only allows data to pass on one direction. 

So even if some hacky malware does manage to get through to the secure system there is absolutely no way for it to send anything back.

Question: Why can't huge companies like Google and YouTube beat ad blockers?
Answer: Ad blockers work in one of two ways.

* The "Take it and dump it" method.
* The "Refuse to ask for it" method.

The majority of ad blockers work on the "Refuse to ask for it" method.

Basically when a page is loaded, your ad blocker consults a list of known ad serving addresses to check if the content loading on a page is part of an advert (Most adverts are loaded from third party domains). It also consults an algorithm to check if something on a page could be an advert (For example most adverts come in industry standardized width and heights in pixels) and for locations on the page it suspects might be an advert. It will also examine the cookies being placed on your PC by the site.

Once the ad blocker has examined the page and determined what is and is not an advert, it will continue to request the bits of the page that is not advertising (Such as photos and images that belong to the sites design), and not request any of the advert components of the page (Like advert graphics/audio, cookies), which it then hides from the sites design so it doesn't look funny. This saves you loading times and bandwidth.

Unfortunately, the developers of the site can write detection routines using Javascript to detect that your adblocker has not requested say for example, the graphic of an advert on the page or other advertising components. This is how they detect you are blocking ads and how those annoying "We know you are blocking our adverts, will you please reconsider?" messages appear.

To prevent this, the other method of blocking ads can be used. The "Take it and dump it" method downloads everything, adverts, advertising cookies, the whole lot. However once they have downloaded to your computer, the ad blocker then deletes them almost immediately and carries on hiding them from the page. Though you still do not see the adverts, this is much slower as it still has to download all the advertising components of the page.

It is however, nearly undetectable by the site operator. The reason it is not used more frequently at the moment is because it's often more liable to break the working of the site, can sometimes be functionally messy and at the moment, it hasn't yet hit the point where they have to resort to this method so the bandwidth savings are worth it. Detecting ad blockers requires some considerable input and at this point the arms race hasn't yet got to that stage. 

There is actually something of a cold war armaments race going on between the developers of ad driven sites and ad blocking software developers. As ways are found to beat the ad blocker, the ad blocker is updated, repeat, repeat, repeat.

In the end though, it's always going to be a lose for the ad companies because an ad blocker when given total control of a browsers output, it's always going to win. The ad companies just don't have that much control over your browser. To that end, it's likely online advertising is going to change or the paywall is going to become more common in the future.

Question: What would happen to the human body if it got exposed to the extreme pressures of the deep ocean?
Answer: rapid compression.

if I had to guess... and this is a guess, your body would quickly fill less tightly filled spaces within itself. (intestines, heart, lungs, ears.

rapid outgassing via anus, rapid color change of your skin almost akin to when you open a compressed water bottle and it makes condensation. like a flash, all your blood vessels etc would adjust. 

Not sure what color you would turn though, probably first white then red due to lots of vessels rupturing during the pressure adjustment.

I would assume death would be in a matter of seconds. 

In other words very very uncomfortable.

Question: . How does a knife cut through stuff
Answer: Every material has some amount of stress it can absorb before it gives way. Knives create a lot of stress by taking the force you apply and putting it in a very small surface area.

Question: Why does everybody with Down's Syndrome look alike
Answer: Because those facial features are a symptom of Down's Syndrome.

Question: Why do parents need to force their children to eat?
Answer: It's not about forcing them to eat.  It about forcing them to ready right. Left up to children they will eat only candy and snacks.   That's why parents want their kids to eat all their actual food on their plate (veggies and grains) before letting them go and eating dessert. The fact that some parents over proportion is unrelated.

Question: why does it sting when I put my contacts in if I haven't slept much /well?
Answer: Eye gunk (Rheum) is kinda floating around our eyes while we sleep. When we first wake up, it takes some time/binking for that to go into the corners of our eyes which we end up wiping away. Putting contacts in shortly after waking up, this stuff gets stuck behind the contacts and irritates the eyes... Actually I have no idea why even if this explanation counts for anything... its only a bit of the explanation... (must be more blood flow in the eyes, making them more sensitive or something) I just hate putting my contacts in after not much sleep. Contacts/eyes suck.

TR;DL: This is a useless explanation....why am I typing right now?

Source: I wear contacts.

Question: What does the three-body problem mean?
Answer: It's just an interaction involving three objects.

The Earth orbiting the sun (if we forget about all the other planets, moons, etc) is a two-body problem.

But if we lived in a binary star system, it would be a three-body problem. Two suns and a planet all orbiting their collective center of mass.

The third body adds significant complications to the mathematics involved with calculating the equations of motion for the objects.

Question: Chapter 11 bankruptcy. How do companies stay in business and recover when they have no money?
Answer: Chapter 11 and chapter 7 are very different. Chapter 7 is game over, sell off everything, pay whatever debts you can from the sale of assets.

Chapter 11 might be a temporary crunch. For example, an oil company in Texas has sold 1 billion dollars of oil to Japan. It takes 1 month for the super tanker to go from Houston to Tokyo, payment won't be made until the tanker actually offloads in Tokyo. 

In the mean time, a bill for 500 million is due. You will have the money in 30 days, just not today. The creditors want payment now. Chapter 11 lets you renegotiate the terms of the payment. 

Maybe renegotiate the terms of the loans you've taken. Stuff like that. It's common known as a reorganization bankruptcy.

Question: Why does Israel continue to build/expand settlements in Palestinian lands despite international condemnation?
Answer: Cause it does not care. 
It gets the USA to veto any action against it at the UN. The P5 countries: US/RUSSIA/CHINA/UK/FRANCE can put a magic veto on any action they don't like against a country they support. So the UN has really no power at all, just puppet bullshit and more money wasting. The are also the biggest weapons dealers in the world BTW

Pretty much the same way Israel has nuclear weapons, still gets tons of money from the USA (which is illegal, can't give aid to nuclear armed countries) AND still tells Iran they can't have nuclear, although they themselves did not sign the Nuclear Non Proliferation Treaty AND do not let the UN/International agency  inspect their nuclear installations (pretends they don't have any weapons

and if you think Israel is doing anything wrong you are a Nazi anti-semite.

Question: Why is Friday the 13th unlucky?
Answer: "Consequently, several theories have been proposed about the origin of the Friday the 13th superstition.

One theory states that it is a modern amalgamation of two older superstitions: that thirteen is an unlucky number and that Friday is an unlucky day.

In numerology, the number twelve is considered the number of completeness, as reflected in the twelve months of the year, twelve hours of the clock, twelve gods of Olympus, twelve tribes of Israel, twelve Apostles of Jesus, the 12 Descendants of Muhammad Imams, etc., whereas the number thirteen was considered irregular, transgressing this completeness. There is also a superstition, thought by some to derive from the Last Supper or a Norse myth, that having thirteen people seated at a table will result in the death of one of the diners.
Friday has been considered an unlucky day at least since the 14th century's The Canterbury Tales,[3] and many other professions have regarded Friday as an unlucky day to undertake journeys or begin new projects. Black Friday has been associated with stock market crashes and other disasters since the 1800s.[6][7] It has also been suggested that Friday has been considered an unlucky day because, according to Christian scripture and tradition, Jesus was crucified on a Friday... 

The connection between the Friday the 13th superstition and the Knights Templar was popularized in the 2003 novel The Da Vinci Code. However, experts agree that this is a relatively recent correlation, and most likely a modern-day invention. Although according to many Freemasons, this date corresponds with the slaughtering of the Knights Templar by the Church."

[wiki source](_URL_0_)

Question: How do wild animals know to not drink salt water?
Answer: it doesn't taste as good as fresh water. that's the same reason you wouldn't drink it if no one taught you.

Question: Why do people have a hard time with public speaking?
Answer: Worry too much about how people are judging them and less on the subject matter being delivered. 

Confidence is just a nice word for giving less of a crap about what other people think about you.

Question: Why does acne hurt, and what is the actual white puss from?
Answer: The acne hurts from the inflammation. The majority of puss is actually not dirt or dead bacteria. It is your own white blood cells (mostly neutrophils).

Question: If a women drugs and rapes a man then becomes pregnant, can she be forced to undergo an abortion?
Answer: Of course not. Why would you think this?

Question: What it would take to shut down the internet in the US
Answer: Every country has an equivalent of the UKs peering points provided by "telehouse" and "telecity". This is where Internet providers connect to each other, and to international carriers who in turn connect to other Internet providers. The US will likely have many of these, so in order to stop all Internet traffic from the US you'd have to take out these peering points.

Edit: Grammar

Question: How does gas compression work? Highschool chemistry taught me that various states of matter are the same thing just molecularly tighter. Why is a compressed gas not just liquid?
Answer: Super compressed gas *does* become a liquid for most gasses (though I think a few gasses like hydrogen get kinda funky there instead). Compressing gasses brings the molecules closer together, but most gasses need to be compressed quite a bit (or cooled down a lot, or some combination of both) before they actually transition to a liquid phase.

Check out "phase diagrams" when you get a chance, they show the combinations of temperature and pressure for a given material where the material is a gas, liquid, or solid and can help you to see where things will switch from one to another.

Question: How does the box office work? For example Interstellar cost 165m to make but it only grossed 173m. How in the world does a cast get paid with 8m?
Answer: Also worth noting that the profits from a movie don't end after a month of release. DVD sales, rentals, licensing agreements with streaming services etc all create revenue after the initial release of a movie.

Question: If your eyes don't have pain receptors, why does it hurt to look at the sun?
Answer: It is incorrect to suggest eyes don't have pain receptors. Some structures in the eye can be among the most sensitive to pain. The retina itself may not react to damage, but there are cells in it which (While photosensitive) are not used in vision. Instead, it appears some of these cells function to stimulate the trigeminal nerve, creating the sensation of discomfort. In fact, even in blind people photophobic (light avoiding) behavior can be stimulated, such as responses in the iris. This may also be why closing one eye reduces the discomfort, as you are effectively reducing the signal.

Question: If I drink half of a Five Hour Energy, will I have half the energy for five hours or the "full" amount of energy for 2.5 hours?
Answer: There are multiple active ingredients in the stuff. Each of them has a curve that initially goes up relatively quickly and then fades slowly as your body processes it.

If you take half, the strength of those curves cut, but they are not squashed in the time dimension.

That said, it takes a lot longer than 5 hours for it to be 100% out of your system. The "effectiveness" ends when the strength falls below a certain threshold. With a lower dose, that would happen sooner.

So, it would be weaker at its peak _and_ not last as long.

Question: What is quantum tunneling and how does it work in stars?
Answer: Things at subatomic scales are a lot fuzzier than things at everyday scales. You might visualize electrons and protons as little balls at definite positions in space moving in definite directions, but understand that this is only a conceptual model. They aren't actually like this. Electrons aren't balls. Neither are protons and neutrons.

Instead, these particles are actually clouds.^1 Can you say that a cloud is in a certain place or that it's moving in a certain way? Clouds change shape in weird ways, right? They might move with the wind, or they might spread out. The point (no pun intended) is that they don't really have a definite position and velocity. Subatomic particles are the same way. In a sense. They're also *not* like clouds in some ways. The most significant way in which they're not like clouds is that an electron "cloud" (i.e. one electron) is really a cloud of where the electron could be *if* we were to observe it.

Imagine that we have a fog machine inside an office cubicle. You turn the fog machine on for a few seconds, and the cubicle housing it fills with gas. If the dividers separating this cubicle from its neighbours are short, then quite a bit of the gas will seep into the cubicles next to this one. If the dividers are tall, less gas will get into the neighbouring cubicles. If the dividers are *really* tall, very little gas will escape into other cubicles. But some surely will. Now imagine that this gas is an electron cloud. Remember, this electron cloud represents all the possible locations an electron could be in if we were to observe it. Because there is a lot more gas in this cubicle (the one with the fog machine), we are bound to observe the electron in this cubicle 9999 times out of 10000. But there is still some amount of gas in the neighbouring cubicle, even with the seemingly impassable divider. Thus we will sometimes observe the electron in that cubicle, so it seems as if the electron that was in the cubicle with the fog machine has "tunneled through" the divider.

I'll let someone else take a stab at its significance in stars.

1. This, too, is a bit of useful fiction. It's a somewhat moot question to ask what they "really" are, as we can't exactly use our senses to directly observe them. A combination of analogies to everyday phenomena and mathematical descriptions of their behaviour is the most accurate way to understand them.

Question: How do physicists transform observation into formulas? Isn't there a chance they aren't accurate, precise, valid or reliable?
Answer: The easiest way to support the accuracy of a formula is to make the dataset larger, or in other words take thousands upon thousands of observations. Computers can tell you the probability of your data just *happening* to follow your formula randomly, and when that probability gets suitably small (most commonly under 5%, though it can be even smaller) we say the theory is supported by the observations. 

So yes there's a chance that a particular formula is wrong, but a very small one. What does happen sometimes is that we're limited to making formulas for things we can more easily observe -- for example velocities seem to add (like, I throw a ball from a train so the speed of the ball = throw speed + train speed, right?), but actually they don't and that addition is just an *approximation* of the real formula for calculating speed, which gets more different near the speed of light.

Also it's important to note that a large chunk of physics is done on the chalkboard, not in a lab. We start with some basic things we observe, like the speed of light is constant everywhere, and then use math to derive a bunch of consequences of those fundamental observations, such as the true velocity formula I mentioned. Observations can lie but math can't.

Question: How do illiterate people in developed countries function?
Answer: Being illiterate doesn't necessarily mean that you can't read at all. A lot of times means that you can sort of read but you can't comprehend a lot of what you read. There are plenty of kids in school who can say the words that are on the page, but they don't really know what it means. If you're on of those people, you can find a job that has minimal "reading" and what does need to be read is often written in very basic language. What you said about birthday cards? Well, they probably know how to to write "I love you, Jonny." They probably also know what that means. You might be able to recognize the pictures on food that you're buying. You may even be able to figure out basic math to know that the numbers on the shelf of the grocery store add up to less than what you have in your wallet.

Question: Why were the Star Wars prequels considered so bad?
Answer: Personally, my question would be more along the lines of "why were the original Star Wars movies considered to be so good?" 

They had awful scenes and dumb humor throughout. The greatest thing about Star Wars IMO was the universe it created. Jedi, lightsabers, space travel, all amazing. However, breaking it down scene by scene I don't love them.

Question: how does a thermal explosion cause a human to get knocked back, as often seen in action movies?
Answer: Movies aren't always representative of real life. Action movies even less so.

Of course, it's possible for an explosion to knock people back. Because of the rapidity with which explosion take place, they almost always create a shock wave. The problem with being knocked back with the shockwave from a thermal explosion, however, is that the shockwave is likely many thousands of degrees. Of course, only being in contact with it for a short time, you wouldn't necessarily be burnt to death (unless it was a *really* hot bomb), but it certainly wouldn't be as clean as movies lead us to believe.

Question: What goes into making a music video? Can JT just ask Scarlett Johansson to make-out with him on camera?
Answer: As SAG actors, they are required to be paid for the production and usage, and as a big celebrity Johansson's agent surely negotiated a huge sum for her performance.

The role of the actual musician in making the music video might be pretty minimal.  The concept of the actual video primarily comes from the director.  In this case, Samuel Bayer and JT worked together to concept the music video.  The concept, sometimes down to the specific shots, setpieces, etc. was nearly or entirely finished before Johansson was even brought on board.  If she said no, it might be the exact same music video with Emily Ratajkowski or something.

Question: How do police and military forces decide which puppies will become members of their team?
Answer: I believe they pick specific breeds from the start and train them all, only to give up the really ineffective ones.

Question: Why are metals like bronze harder than the metals used to create them.
Answer: It has to do with the different phases that form in alloys. Basically two materials form a matrix that creates a hybrid grain structure that is stronger than the homogeneous materials themselves. It is a bit complex, but think about it like concrete. Concrete is really made up of sand, pebbles, and rocks. Each on their own isn't very structurally sound, but together they all interfere with each other's movements, making the whole much stronger than any one part. 

Tried to keep it high level, but I can elaborate if anyone likes.

Question: How can US Mail delivery vary so much in delivery times just because of an extra fee?
Answer: I think your airplane analogy has merit but you're thinking of it backwards. Think about it this way. Generally speaking, a direct flight to your destination costs more than one with layovers. Why is that? 

Let's use an example. ATL is a huge airport, because it's a major hub. Lots of regional and local flights fly out of there. Now let's imagine people from all over the United States want to go to Disney World. The closest major airport is Orlando. But you're not going to have enough people wanting to go from Boise to Orlando on a Tuesday to rationalize having a regular flight. HOWEVER, if you combine all the people who want to go to Orlando, Miami, Savannah, Birmingham and Jacksonville on a Tuesday, then you have enough people to fill a flight.

So you fly them all to Atlanta on a full flight. You make a profit on the trip and they save money. In Atlanta, all the people from NYC, LA, Boise, Chicago, etc who want to go to Orlando, Daytona, etc., are then combined to fill local and regional flights to their final destinations. 

It's the same with mail. If you send a mail from point A to point B, it has to take a truck there, fly, get on another truck, etc. By bringing all the mail to regional hubs, they combine large amounts of mail into groups, fill up 18-wheelers, take them all to the same hub, then sort them for local delivery. This all takes time. 

When you pay the extra money for express delivery, you're paying them to "special case" your package and make sure that it bypasses the standard, time consuming handling in order to get delivered within a certain amount of time.

I hope that makes sense!

Question: Selenium and mercury
Answer: Mercury and selenium have a high tendency to bind to one another. This is bad because selenium is used in some very important enzymes, and when mercury binds to these enzymes they get deactivated. The selenium in fish isn't being used by the body (yet), so if mercury binds to that selenium instead, there's no harm done and the body is able to get rid of it.

Question: if we Americans strive to separate church and state, why are so many polling locations in churches?
Answer: Why cant they be?

The separation of church and state just means that there can be know government endorsed religion. It does not mean that politicians cant be religious or that government functions couldn't be held in a church etc.

Question: What is making the prices of houses in the UK so high? Is there any hope of fixing this issue?
Answer: There are a finite number of houses and a finite amount of space.  So as population grows and more and more people want houses... prices rise.

There is no solution save a good plague or a good war.  Need to get rid of the bodies or acquire more land.

Question: how does "old faithful" erupt so consistently
Answer: [It doesn't](_URL_0_), at least, not anymore. The 1983 Borah Peak earthquake set the schedule off balance, and another in 1998 really changed things up. 

Geysers are fed by underground rivers that lie above a pool of magma. After an eruption, the water begins to fill back up and the pressure increases. Pressure causes the water to be superheated (over boiling temp, like a pressure cooker ^hello ^NSA!) by the magma and, like a volcano, the turbulent pressure brings it to the surface. When it reaches the surface, the pressure inside drops, which causes the superheated water to become volatile. It vaporizes and shoots out of the geyser like a rocket. 

[Mythbusters](_URL_1_) has an example of superheating that offers a pretty neat visualization.

Question: why do our eyes/brains struggle to figure out how many numbers/letters are in something when one repeats it self vs when all are different (12333332 vs 60292813)
Answer: This is because it is easier for the human brain to count different numbers since you can know at which number you are looking at (The criterion is that the next number is visibly different than the previous).
When you have to deal with a repeatitive number, you "have" doubts whether you skipped or count twice a number , so you instictively start take more time to make sure you read the number correct.

Question: Why do Black Lives Matter protesters only show up for police-involved shootings? Why are black-on-black shootings ignored?
Answer: The protesters aren't there just because people are dying or because they hate "shootings". Black lives matter is about a particular issue - injustice at the hands of the people / systems that are designed to protect us all equally.

You might as well be asking why the same people aren't also showing up for events about diabetes and heart disease since these kill a lot of black people.  

Further, black on black violence has been the subject of many conferences and events.  It doesn't receive much coverage in the media.

Question: Beer and rate of consumption...
Answer: 2 a day would be healthier.

When you drink 14 at once, your body is going to struggle to deal with it at once, you're taxing your system a lot more. 

While a couple a day, your liver can deal with that without a bunch of backlog, you're not going to be sick, not going to be dehydrated etc...

Question: Supreme Court decision on Citizens United
Answer: To understand *Citizens United*, we actually have to go back to some earlier cases to get the context.

The first concept to understand here is that the line of cases beginning with *Buckley v. Valeo* and continued in *Citizens United* basically said "the ability to spend money to support a given ideological view (but not to support candidates directly) is part of ones free speech."  In order for me to have the freedom of speech in politics, I need to be able to buy an ad on television (if I want to) which says "legalizing marijuana is good" or "legalizing marijuana is bad."

The first important distinction is between "hard money" (direct contributions to candidates, which can be limited) and "soft money."  Soft money is money spent by an independent entity (not associated with a campaign) which cannot directly support or oppose any individual candidate.  At best, it'd be advertisements that say "SOPA is bad."  In reality, the rules are such that they can say "SOPA is bad, Lamar Smith supported SOPA.  Lamar Smith is in the breast pocket of the RIAA.  Tell Lamar Smith to protect Americans, not corporations."

Under *Buckley* as long as the advertisement does not say "vote for," "elect," "support", "cast your ballot for", "Smith for Congress", "vote against", "defeat", "reject", or any variations of those, it has been treated as an "issue" ad, rather than a campaign expenditure.

This led to the rise of so-called Political Action Committee (the PACs you hear so much about).  Their purpose was to spend money on "issue ads" in the hopes of influencing voters, but often were using only sham issue ads.  Think about the Swiftboat ads against John Kerry.  They were treated as "issue ads", even though they were clearly intended to influence voters to vote against a specific candidate.

After *Buckley* Congress wanted to rein in that kind of expenditure, and so included in McCain-Feingold (a campaign finance reform bill) a provision that made it illegal to run those kinds of ads within 30 days of an election.

*Citizens United* was a court case stemming from that law, where the Supreme Court ruled that such a restriction was unconstitutional.

The reasoning was based primarily on the previous right to spend money to influence other voters being part of free speech, and the right of individuals to associate to pool their political voices and campaign expenditures.  So, an association of people (any association of people) has the right to spend money on issue ads, at any time during the campaign.

The Court did do away with the "magic words" from *Buckley*, but that hasn't changed the character of "issue ads" much.

By reaffirming that spending money to influence voters is free speech (that's the "money = speech" misrepresentation so many people make), and providing associations with the same protections as any individual's free speech in this area it gave corporations, and especially PACs, the ability to spend money on issue ads without limits.

Now, this does *not* mean that they can contribute to campaigns themselves.  Corporations cannot donate to campaigns at all, and PACs can only donate $5,000 to any individual campaign.  But, a corporation could donate to a PAC, and that PAC can spend an unlimited amount on these issue ads.

The concern is that a corporation would be able to go to a candidate and say "do this, and we'll direct our PAC to spend money supporting you, if you don't we'll direct our PAC to spend money opposing you."

The problem with all of the concern about that "corrupting" influence on politics is that it requires the assumptions (a) that the American people decide who to vote for based on who spends the most, and (b) that the American people's choices can't be trusted to be above undue influence.

Question: When momentarily walking past fumes (exhaust, tar, etc) is it better to breathe normally or to restrict your breathing for a short period (thus reducing oxygen intake)?
Answer: Hold it. There isn't harm in short periods without breathing, so the down side is nil. The stuff you're breathing probably isn't going to hurt you if it's just a whiff, but there's more potential harm from it than from held breath.

Question: How is the Universe expanding if gravity pulls things together?
Answer: Wouldn't physicists like to know.

But seriously, they dont know. At this point, all we have are some theories. Mainly, dark energy. Basically an unknown, undetectable force that pushes on everything in the universe. Locally, its not strong enough to overcome gravity, which is why stars, planets, orbits, galaxies, etc. still exist; but on a cosmic scale, it is strong enough to push all the clumps of mater (which are basically clumps of gravity), away from each other.

It's also worth mentioning that, since dark energy expands space itself, and isn't technically *moving* anything, the expansion of the universe is actually faster than the speed of light. Some galaxies are moving away from each other so quickly, that light from one galaxy would never be able to reach the other, because it cant travel fast enough.

Question: How does the placebo effect actually work?
Answer: You have substances in your body that are chemically very similar to the drugs that are prescribed by physicians. The reason drugs work is because we have receptors that drugs may biochemically bond with. In the case of placebo, it's believed that the suggestion actually activates the body to create and mobilise the natural substances to bind to the receptors. So, for example, our bodies make natural opioids (dynorphins, enkephalins, endorphins, endomorphins and nociceptin) which are natural analgesics. In the example of pain, a placebo primes the individual to create their own opioids.

RadioLab had an excellent programme on this, [podcast is here](_URL_0_)

Question: How do those 90's "Magic Eye" pictures work?
Answer: The proper name is "single-image random dot stereogram" (SIRDS)

It's tricky, and describing it without drawing diagrams is a little hard, but I'll try:

Imagine a 3-D model on a table. There's a piece of glass halfway between your eyes and the model.

Paint a random dot of color on the glass near the middle. Look at that dot with your right eye. Paint that same color dot on the model, behind the dot on the glass.

Now look at the dot on the model with your left eye and paint the glass with a dot of the same color in front of the one on the model. Now there are two dots on the glass.

Now look at that second dot with your right eye, and paint another dot on the model behind it.

Keep repeating this process, alternating eyes and painting dots. Eventually, you get a line of dots across the width of the glass, spaced about half the distance between your eyes.

Now do it all over again with another random dot on the glass. Keep doing this over and over again until there's no spot on the glass without a dot on it.

Take the model away and look at the glass, and if you diverge your eyes the right amount, your brain will lock onto the repeating pattern of dots and reconstruct the stereo view of the model that's not there any more.

One final note: the dots don't need to be random; you can take pixels from an image, and it will look like you just have a repeating image on the glass. The result looks like the image was painted onto the surface of the model. 

[Wikipedia article, with diagrams](_URL_0_)

Question: Why do we find "sweet" things so pleasurable? Even other animals really seem to enjoy sweet things.
Answer: Sweet implies calories, and animals need calories to survive.  Animals evolved not knowing where their next meal was coming from, so it benefits them to eat as many calories as possible while they can.  By making calories pleasurable, it creates a desire to eat them.

Question: Why can't electrons have a defined position?
Answer: I suspect you have an image in your mind of electrons moving around in space like physical objects such as ping-pong balls.  So you'd be right in asking "how can't that object have a defined position?".

But there are other ways of thinking about electrons.  Imagine I yell "I am an electron!" from across the room.  Now, where is that sound?  Is it where you hear the sound?  Is it where I'm shouting?  Maybe.  But if you move around the room while I'm shouting, you'll discover that the sound is everywhere in the room - and subtly different dependent on where in the room you stand.

Another way to think about it would be to imagine electrons not as physical entities at all but rather just a property of atoms.  Imagine you're wearing a plaid skirt.  You can point to a defined position for the skirt.  But what is the defined position of the *plaid*?  The question doesn't really make any sense because 'plaid' is not an object with a location - it's just a property of objects.  The plaid is definitely something you can perceive and interact with - it's just not an object you can pinpoint.

The question you're asking is the same one physicists asked themselves a century or so ago.  The answer they came up with was "electrons aren't ping-pong balls".

Question: how do multilane highways reduce traffic if they merge to fewer lanes without oppurtunity to turn off?
Answer: They alow the people driving at a faster rate to get ahead of those that are driving at a slower rate and causing the traffic to collect behind them.

Question: Canned meat not needing refrigeration?
Answer: Part of the canning process is heating the cans after they are sealed. The heat kills any bacteria present in the contents, and the sealed can prevents any new bacteria from getting in. As long as the can isn't compromised most canned goods remain safe almost indefinitely (although many won't taste good after a long time).

Question: Why is North Korea so secluded?
Answer: Ok. So here's the "non-loaded-rhetoric" version.

The isolation in North Korea has two aspects. The ideological aspect, and the "actually useful" aspect. THe ideological aspect deals with the ruling political philosophy of the nation, Juche. Juche is, in simple terms, the idea of self-reliance. And not the "'murican" self-reliance where we trade with everyone and generally hand out in the global market. I mean total self-reliance. As in fuck you all, we'll make our own stuff. 

By now you should have realized that isn't how things are. The DPRK is entirely reliant on other countries donating food and supplies. You know that, I know that but (until recently) no one in North Korea knew that. Far as they knew the DPRK was just that good at getting them hardly any food. 

Oppressive regime 101: Give the people a cause to rally to and they will forget they are starving. The North Korean's are proud of their self-reliance! They are proud of how they stand alone against the threat of the evil western powers and their puppet South Korea! 

Do note. That this is changing as more North Koreans get access to foreign media.

Question: Why do the members of the Whitehouse press pool yell out questions to the President after they have been told that no questions will be taken.
Answer: That's what you do as a journalist, ask questions. You wouldn't be doing your job if you kept quiet. It's pretty normal in all settings like this. There's a big difference between "we asked, and he didn't want to answer" and not asking at all.

I don't know if it's ever worked in a presidential press conference, but it certainly does happen that someone will decide to answer a poignant question even though he didn't want make any comments.

Question: Why do we use the "Qwerty" keyboard?
Answer: You can wiki for more.

The basic story is that English has a number of common letter pairs.  On old typewriters these letter pairs were often so close together that the arms (that "type" the letters onto the page) could swing in and jam if the operator was too quick.  So the Qwerty board was developed.  It breaks up the common letter pairs so that jams happen less frequently.

Question: How do companies like EB games and Gamestop make money when the game/console creators sell the game online for the same price?
Answer: Source: I was an assistant manager at Gamestop, and I worked there from 2011-2014. 

A very large majority of their money comes from used games. We paid $54 for every $60 new game we sold. We only made about $25 off of new consoles. The only thing that keeps them afloat is used games. We would make $35 off a used game that recently just came out which is more than a new  console and new game combined.

Question: How do pressure cookers work?
Answer: A pressure cooker is a device that uses a sealed container to capture all the fumes developed during heating liquids. Imagine if you have a pot full of water. If the pot is sealed and you heat it up, steam will develop. Because of this steam, the pressure in the (sealed) container increases. Thermodynamics predicts that a higher pressure increases the poiling point of liquids, i.e. water would need more than 100 degrees Celsius to boil. Therefore, you can heat up the liquid to a higher temperature than you normally could without the liquid evaporating.

Pressure cookers, for example, are useful at higher altitudes, where normally the inverse effect would take place: The lower atmospheric pressure would reduce the boiling point of liquids, so far that eventually food couldn't be cooked. The use of a pressure cooker can counteract this.

I don't know abut food tasting better (I have never actually cooked with a pressure cooker), but i would assume it has to do with the higher cooking speed due to increased temperature of the water.

Hope that helps :)

Question: What would happen to the financial stability of the United States if foreign governments suddenly stopped investing (and reinvesting) in U.S. treasury bonds?
Answer: Foreign Governments don't use Treasuries as a form of investment, the yield is so low on them that they often don't even beat inflation resulting in a small real loos for those holding them.

There are a couple of reasons why a sovereign (or institutional investor) would still choose to hold UST's;

* They are considered the most stable (both in yield and risk) of any sovereign issued securities throughout the world and as such are frequently used as a safe harbor when the market is turbulent, this is why US borrowing costs actually drop in a recession. Individual retirement funds throughout the world convert from stock holdings to UST's as retirement approaches for this reason too, having a stable base becomes more important then yield.
* There is a guaranteed secondary market. US monetary policy relies nearly entirely on the trade of UST's in the secondary market to accomplish its aims and as such there is always someone who wants to buy UST's if you no longer want to hold on to them. Fed demand this year is likely going to be in the $1.2t range.
* With two standard floating currencies a trade imbalance between two countries results in the value of the country with the higher trade output increasing. Japan (and to a lesser extent China) purchase UST's to artificially inflate the value of the USD and thus make it cheaper for them to import. As their economies are heavily based on trade with the US this is not a situation which will change.
* As the USD is the primary world reserve currency and UST's are treated as cash like assets you can use them in trade. Particularly with large trade deals it can be significantly cheaper to trade UST's then it is cash.
* Banks are permitted to hold UST's as a large part of their Tier 1 capital (even outside the US). Using a number of leverage strategies this allows them to use significantly less then $1 of capital to secure $1 of their capital requirements which in turn means more to invest and lend, which leads to higher revenues and profits. As such its extremely desirable for them to hold UST's over other securities. This is one of the reasons the QE programs use UST's instead of just capital.

TL;DR: It never would happen.

Question: Why there is such a variance in the human phenotype, as compared to other species?
Answer: the same reason asian people tend to look the same to a white person. they're so different from us that we overlook the subtle differences that are in fact obvious to someone or some animal of the same species. 

e.g. they do vary, you just don't notice it because you aren't an elephant. 

the point about human evolution that /u/lithuim brings up below is also a good point to add, humans specialize in recognizing subtlties in other humans, irrespective of the points above.

Question: How exactly did Edward Snowden get hold of all the documents he leaked?
Answer: From [this article](_URL_0_) : "As a system administrator, Snowden was allowed to look at any file he wanted, and his actions were largely unaudited. “At certain levels, you are the audit,” said an intelligence official. " and "... a system administrator has the right to copy, to take information from one computer and move it to another."

He had the clearance and permissions to look at and copy just about anything he wanted.

Question: If poverty is so bad in an area like in ghettos or in Africa. Why do people so readily continue having children only to be born in to hardship?
Answer: You think of them as another mouth to feed because you're a middle class guy in a nation with child labor laws.

If you were in the developing world you might think of them as another pair of hands to help with the work or something to exchange for goods in a wedding.  Or you might simply be uneducated with no access to contraceptives and no other activity to bring you any joy.

Question: why aren't there electoral systems that allow negative votes?
Answer: There are several different voting systems that allow you to downvote certain candidates. However it is usually not compulsory. However the most effective way to keep people from voting strategically is to use a ranked voting system where you sort the options from most preferable to least preferable.

Question: Is Generalized Anxiety Disorder something you're born with, or are there life-triggers that set it off? Can you ever truly be "cured" of it?
Answer: TLDR: We don't know.

Since brain science is a young field and not much is well understood yet, psychiatry mostly aims towards addressing mental illnesses pragmatically, rather than trying to achieve a deep understanding of mental illnesses, with a goal of eliminating symptoms. In this way, it is firmly within the realm of medicine and not natural science. There are of course people who study the neurological causes of anxiety, but there is not enough knowledge there to be very helpful in a medical context (except perhaps in some cutting-edge treatments that are still being studied).

Generalized anxiety is a medical definition, not a scientific one. It's based on having a set of symptoms, with the idea that this is helpful because we know a set of treatments that are sometimes effective for eliminating this set of symptoms. Even for medications, which clearly work in a chemical and hence physical way, the mechanisms for how it works is not well understood. For medicine, the most important thing is that treatments be reliable. Understanding underlying physical mechanisms is useful to that end, but it is not an end in itself-- unlike for science.

Question: Do smarter brains use more energy or do they just use it better? How?
Answer: Some studies have found that when people are not very good at a particular task, they exert more mental effort and use more glucose and that, likewise, the more skilled you are, the more efficient your brain is and the less glucose you need. Complicating matters, at least one study suggests the opposite—that more skillful brains recruit more energy.
 so the answer lies between yes (it takes more energy when you do something at first) and no like you can't be sure other factors like stress also come in play

Question: How does changing electricity companies work when it travels in the same wires?
Answer: See the electricity network as a huge tank (the wires). There are some things that need to be done: the tank has to be filled with electricity, the tank has to be maintained and the electricity has to be distributed to the people. 

These things can be done by different companies! There is usually only one company owning the network and maybe a few filling the tank, but there can be lots of companies distributing your electricity. They can all make a difference to eachother by offering you deals with gas or other services, by making different arrangements with the owner of the tank, ... That way you get better competition and a fair price for both consumer and producer.

Question: At what point is a virally infected person no longer considered a "carrier"? How can we become immune to certain things without carrying/spreading the sickness ?
Answer: I'm not sure about the first part but I can answer the second part.  The answer is vaccines.  Vaccinations contain a weakened variation or something that resembles the disease causing micro organism.  By doing this, it teaches our immune system to fight off the pathogen by copying traits of the disease that our bodies have trouble fighting.  When our bodies have been exposed to a pathogen it can better prepare for the real version of it, thus providing an immunity or resistance.  Vaccinations are similar to how people who have survived a pathogen are unlikely to contract it again (ex, chicken pox).  However, it is not permanent as the immune system can "forget" the disease after long periods of time which is why vaccinations usually have time period.

Question: Why do my mom's ashes make a weird sound?
Answer: > What happens to the bones during cremation?

If I had to guess, it probably is the hard, remnants of bone hitting the inside.

That, or ghosts.

Question: Why is it so much easier to remember song lyrics without even trying, yet vocabulary words and their definitions take forever to memorize?
Answer: Music therapist here. It's because the information is stored in multiple locations in your brain!

Language is primarily stored in the left hemisphere of the brain, while music is stored on both sides of the brain. So when you learn words associated with music (i.e. lyrics) there are more parts of your brain being used to store those words. 

There are very cool implications for this, the first of which most people have benefited from:

1. Mnemonic devices (ABC's, Nifty Fifty United States, etc...)

2. Alzheimer's patients who have lost all speech and memory can still sing and remember lyrics to songs.

3. Stroke patients who have lost all use of the speech center of their brain can still sing words. Some music therapists use this to quite literally transplant the speech center to another part of the brain with music. (look up Gabby Giffords)

Question: Why do we have fingerprints, why are they located on our fingers/hands?
Answer: "Fingerprints" are actually NOT only on your fingers and hands but over your entire body! If you look closely at your arm you'll notice hundreds of tiny lines across your arm, this is most obvious near your elbow. These are actually the same lines as your fingerprints.
 
[Here's an example of what your skin looks like under the surface](_URL_0_). Notice the waves in the bottom layer? Those exist to increase the surface area between your skin layers and this makes your skin much stronger and keeps it anchored in place. On the surface those look like tiny lines which we call fingerprints. 

The reason why they're more pronounced on your hands (and also your feet) is because the skin in those areas takes the most abuse and has to be the strongest, so the lines are more pronounced.

Question: Hubble Ultra Deep Field (HUDF) photograph
Answer: Have you ever seen a [long exposure photo](_URL_0_)? They look pretty cool. Basically, instead of having the camera shutter open and shut very quickly (as most cameras do), you set up the camera so that the shutter stays open for a few seconds or a few minutes or even longer, to let in more light than it normally would. It turns out that you can do more than just make pretty photos with this technique. If you take a very powerful telescope, like Hubble, and point it at a specific spot in the night sky featuring extremely distant objects, you can leave the "shutter", so to speak, open for days or even weeks, letting in a slow but steady trickle of light from those distant objects. The HUDF is an example of the end result of such a very long shot (several weeks of exposure).

The galaxies in the HUDF are (estimated) to have existed just a few hundred millions years after the big bang. Because they're so very, very far away, it's taken the light from those galaxies billions and billions of years to reach us. In a very real way, it's like looking into the past. Cosmologists hope to use this image, and others like it in the future, to further their knowledge of how galaxies form.

Question: How exactly does the counting for total karma work?
Answer: Keep in mind that self. posts don't add anything to your karma count.

Question: Why don't all companies do what supermarkets do with advertising?
Answer: Because Apple and Samsung don't sell the same products.

But companies are allowed to say that they sell a product for less if they actually do.

Question: How are "generations" measured? Where is the cut off?
Answer: A "generation" is a vague unit of time, so it depends on the context.  In genealogical or biological terms, it is strictly the parent/child measurement, so yes, you would be in the same generation as your cousin, since you share the same percentage of genes of your grandparents.  


In a sociological context, "generations" are defined more vaguely as the group of people who grew up and lived together in similar circumstances.  It starts at a relatively arbitrary point, in america it starts with the 1885-1900 generation, "The Lost Generation", The people who went through WWI and then the roaring 20s.  Then the kids born in the next 20-25 years or so are the next generation, "greatest generation", then the "lucky few", "baby boomers", "Generation X", and most recently "millennials".  The generations are usually named after what they do when they're aged 25-50, not when they're born.  

Sorry if that was a shitty explination

Question: Why can't we distinguish the temperature of an object you're expecting could be hot or cold, straight away when we first touch it?
Answer: It's a delay in the body. An easy way to explain it is reaction time. If someone threw something at your face and you even knew it was happening, your time is delayed. Your brain would need to process about where the object is heading, how fast, how quickly you need to be to catch it, or how quick you need to be to dodge it.

When you touch the pan on the stove, your nerves are telling the brain if it is hot or cold. That information must spend time arriving to your brain, your brain processing it, and then waiting on you to find out what you want to do with the new information, given the object temperature isn't too extreme and the brain overrides you and forces you to remove your hand from the pan.

Now if you literally take seconds to process the temperature, what's likely going on is the temperature of the pan is too mild for a difference. A room temperature pan or one equivalent to your body temperature will take longer to process than one that's going to burn your hand or freeze you to it. There's no immediate need to remove your hand so the body doesn't hurry nearly as fast to tell your brain to move away. If your skin was being burnt the moment you touched it, your body rushes to say "hey! Skin cells are dying!" The brain goes "oh no! Move the hand!" Then the hand moves, typically like when you touch something hot that you didn't expect to be hot. 

If you are focusing on determining the temperature, that seems to be the slowest you can be with the exception of deliberately trying to hold your hand on the pan while disregarding the effects. Your nerves will check the temperature and try to tell your brain what's going on. If the temperature is mild to your body temperature, it's harder for the body to detect. A pan thay just freshly cooked something will rapidly heat your hand where a slightly warm pan will slowly warm your hand. (Don't test it. I'm not responsible if you decide to calculate the delays in your body if you want to burn or freeze your body parts) 

Tl;dr  it depends how extreme the temperature of the pan is to you, along with the natural delay in your brain for processing information.

Question: Negative Imaginary Numbers
Answer: By radical, I assume you mean specifically the square root so I'll use the format sqrt(x)

In general sqrt(x) * sqrt(x) = x

So sqrt(-1) * sqrt(-1) = -1

Now we define the value "i" as sqrt(-1) = i

You'r right that (-1) * (-1) = 1, so if i*i = -1 then i can't be any normal number, it has to be something different. For a long time we just said that there is no value, but then we started realizing that there were useful calculations that could be done using these "imaginary" numbers.

Is there a "real explanation" for it? Is zero a real number? Is -5? Is 1.2? You can't have 1.2 objects, but it's still useful when talking about volumes. You can't have -5 of anything, but it's still useful when talking about debts or errors in measurement. You can't have "i" dollars, but it's still useful to calculate electrical resistance or the position of subatomic particles.

To some extent imaginary numbers are just made up following certain rules of math, but it turns out that they can also be used to calculate things in the real world.

Question: What is the purpose of humans having emotions?
Answer: Emotions guide us in the Darwinian process of the survival of the fittest. So love makes us bond with partners and family to help us survive and propagate while hate guides us to strike down competitors etc.

Question: How does sand become glass?
Answer: Quartz sand *doesn't* become glass.   It becomes fused silica, but you'd need an oxygen jet in your campfire, since silica won't melt until around 3,000F degrees.

However, if you first mix sand with other chemicals, borax, lime, or baking soda for example, the quartz sand will dissolve in the melted borax etc.   That way you only need glowing-red temperatures to get glass.

Typical cheap window-glass is not quartz, it's "soda lime glass."    And Pyrex cookware, that's borax-silica glass.

Question: How can shows such as House Of Cards have differing writers and directors every few episodes, yet still remain consistent in tone and feel?
Answer: On the writing staff, there is someone who serves as what they call the Showrunner. This is the person with ultimate authority over the script. They're in charge of the writing room when coming up with story ideas, they're in charge of handing out writing assignments for each episode. And they often re-write the other writers' scripts once submitted. So it's that person's job to make sure the script fits the tone of the series, that each character's voice is maintained, etc.

In TV, the direction and cinematography and editing and production design is basically set by the first episode. Those people will determine the look and feel of the series. Everyone who comes later works to keep things consistent. They still have important work to do, but they have a limited set of choices to make, because they have to stay within the framework set by the first episode.

Question: how do people graduate/finish school early
Answer: They don't complete 12 years of school, that's how.

They do some school, and everyone involved agrees it would be a waste of time to have them sit through the same stuff as everyone else, so they skip them past several grades.

16 isn't really that crazy, I graduated high school at 17, and I went through every grade.  Someone who graduates then could have just skipped some elementary school grade, or started 1st grade when they were 4, instead of the more normal 5.

People who are younger just skipped more grades, or accomplished the requirements for graduating in less than 4 years, which cuts out a year.

Question: What's the difference between these two laptop network cards?
Answer: Wifi, or Wireless is what you use you connect (without wires) to your home network and the internet.  It is the same for both of them

Ethernet is the way you do it with a wire.  The plug looks a bit like a large phone plug.  Not many people do this in their homes anymore with laptops but a lot of businesses still do. If you might need to plug in for the network (internet) then you need this one.  

Bluetooth is for connecting to stuff like headsets and mice without wires.  There are a lot of things you might want to use at a distance and many of them use Bluetooth.  If you want to use those things then it's probably best to get Bluetooth. 

We don't use Bluetooth for connecting to networks because it responds fast but can't actually move a lot of info very fast.  It is also much shorter range than wifi

Question: how does CPR help someone who has been drowning?
Answer: I'm not a doctor, just a paramedic, but this is my basic understanding of how it works. Not all drowning victim have water in their lungs due to involuntary laryngospasm. But either way, the lack of oxygen to the brain and other organs causes unresponsiveness and cardiac arrest. Once the person has been removed from the water, cpr is performed to reoxygenate the blood and circulate that oxygenated blood through the body and to reperfuse organs. If you're successful, the body will start to cough up and remove the water that's in the lungs. Also, the lungs can absorb small amounts of fluids on their own, getting rid of the last bit of water creating more lung surface area to exchange gases.

Question: why it takes less time to fly from west to east compared to flying from east to west
Answer: In really high altitudes there is moving air called "Jetstreams. In the northern hemisphere the jetstream generally moves from west to east. The planes can ride this jetstream giving the plane more thrust, vs if the plane travels east to west it has to overcome the drag created going against it. 
Think of it like a river. It's hard to paddle upstream but not down it.

Question: Why do most live performers remove their in ear moniters when they perform? If it affects their performance, why do they wear it in the first place?
Answer: > As a professional musician for over a decade, the simple answer is this: In-ear monitors are excellent for keeping a fine tuned ear on what is being played, hearing click tracks, and getting cues. When someone takes out one (or sometimes both) of their in-ears, it's to either REALLY hear the ambient sounds around them, more accurately hear the crowd, or just as often, simply get a break from the (necessary) loudness directly in their ear.
Actively listening to what's piped into your in-ears is what keeps musicians on key/on tempo. Taking them out gives them a break from the audio assault, and lets them engage with their actual surroundings instead of being in an isolated audio environment.

From /u/jayrobhearthrob 's reply. It deserves to be a top level post but he says he doesn't know how to Reddit, so I'm helping.

Question: How can people not get source code for a game even though they have the exe and files
Answer: The .Exe just contains the compiled code, which is pretty hard to reverse engineer into source code. This compiled code is what the computer actually reads and for the most part is just long strings of numbers and next to impossible for a human to read fluently. The problem with reverse engineering compiled code is that a lot of information is lost during the compiling process. It just becomes setting, moving and copying data from other places in memory. What those numbers actually mean is lost pretty quickly.

Question: How do forensics assess whether someone was raped before or after being killed?
Answer: Rape tends to damage tissue a lot. If alive when damage is inflicted, the body immediately reacts to the damage in various ways, causing bruises. Plus when there are rips and tears, the man or woman who has been raped will bleed if alive. If dead, there won’t be any bleeding because the heart isn’t pumping, and microscopic changes that occur as the body reacts to injury won’t be present.

Question: Why do some computer mice cost as much as $120?
Answer: Because money goes into design, research of technology, parts, marketing and ofg course lots of profits. When people spend a lot of time playing games, they want their connection the the computer, of  which a mouse is one, to be the best.

Question: How do the mico transactions work in the new Battlefront, and why is everyone freaking out about not being able to play as Darth Vader? Noob here.
Answer: Only a couple of heroes are unlocked by default, the rest have to be bought with in game money. You can earn in game money by playing the game or buying it with real money. many people feel the rate at which you earn in game money is reduced to such a level as to be frustrating to obtain and that this is done intentionally to force people to buy in game money with real money.

Darth Vader is the most expensive hero and as one of the most popular character players feel that EA is trying to capitalize on certain heros popularity as another lever to push people to spend more money on the game.

All of this is compounded by the fact that this game is a full price game. A number of people have said if this were free to play they may be able to accept this approach (even if they don't particularly like it)  but since they're paying full price they expect all unlocks to be reasonably available without any further purchases.

Question: How did the current state of Israel come into existence?
Answer: Israel was established mostly because of the pity many Western nations had towards the Jews by the end of WWII. Countries like the UK and the US thought the Jews needed their own nation in order to prevent a slaughtering like the slaughtering of the Jews by the Germans during WWII.  

The choice for the region in which the current nation of Israel is established was quite an obvious one: almost all of the Jews agreed that they wanted to live near the region that was once the kingdom of Judea, conquered by Babylon around 600 B.C. This caused the Jews to be spread across the nearby lands (the 'Jewish Diaspora'). The Jews wanted to live near the city of Jerusalem again, because that city was sacred in their eyes. 

But the establishing of Israel didn't go as the Western nations hoped: they hoped the Jews could live in peace with the Arabs who had lived in the area for centuries and called it Palestina. This hope was soon gone, because the Arabs considered the Jews as intruders. 

This resulted in a series of wars between the Jews and the Palestines, eventually won by the Jews. Hundreds of thousands of Palestines found themselves living in an area ruled by Jews. This took place around 1950. 

Ever since that moment the Israeli and the Palestines have been arguing (sometimes agressively) about who is to rule which area. This argue was never really solved, and behold: the current conflicts between the Israeli's and the Palestines. 

Hope this helps!

Question: Knockouts and concussions, what and why does it happen, and what is the difference?
Answer: I am a high school level soccer coach in Colorado, which means I am required to take a concussion course every year that I am active, which for me is 3 years. I have some input on this.

A concussion is your brain twisting or impacting the inside of your skull much like what has already been said. This will result in dizziness, nausea, loss of memory or "foggy" memory, headache and/or confusion.

Most concussions are barely noticeable, which is why research has become so much more extensive over the past ten years or so. Many people have had concussions and don't realize it.

There really isn't a difference between a concussion and a knockout per se, because all knockouts will result in a concussion, but not all concussions will result in being knocked out. 

As for why the brain shuts down, I don't have an answer for that.

Question: What is the joke behind "Runway 37"
Answer: Runway numbers only go from 1-36. They are basically numbered for their magnetic heading (0-360 degrees) divided by 10.

_URL_0_

Question: Why do scratched CD's skip while playing in my car but don't skip when playing on my laptop?
Answer: Some players are better than others at ignoring the scratches. It has to do with the quality of the laser and/or sensor reading the disc.

BTW, a light application of Mother's Mag Wheel polish does wonders for making scratched CDs easier for most players to read.

Question: Why did Grenfell Tower not collapse after the fire?
Answer: The tower is a mix of cast in place and precast concrete structure. There are 10 exterior concrete columns supporting the floors and an interior concrete shaft for lateral stability (which also partially supports the floors). Interior walls are precast concrete. 

Concrete structures are very resilient to catastrophic collapse from fire.  A fire like that probably wasn't hot enough to really compromise the reinforcement in the concrete. Although the building will be inspected to determine if it needs structural repairs or needs to be demolished.

Question: How does a gun protect me in my home when I'm supposed to lock it in a safe?
Answer: You put the safe near your bed, if it's a wall safe above the reach of a toddler, and you have the muscle memory to enter the code and load your gun quickly.

If you're actually concerned with home safety, you probably have a security system. That will wake you up with plenty of time to access the safe, get your gun, and assess the situation.

Prior to the incident, you teach your children about gun safety. Ask anyone about the age of 50 where their parents kept their guns. The answer is likely in a drawer next to the bed and a shotgun near the door. Yet, it's only recently that the spike in accidental shootings has arisen. Meaning the variable factor is either gun knowledge, or media portrayal, not the fact a gun was in the house.

I grew up around and handled guns all my life. I never once came even vaguely close to accidentally shooting someone or being shot. Because I respected the guns, and was taught to handle them properly.

Question: How can Valve get away with cutting prices as much as 70% on Steam for mostly games they didn't even make? Are external game companies not getting really pissed off from missed profits?
Answer: Valve has to clear such sales with the publishers who are making the money from those sales.

If your wondering how these sales work:

Game X costs $10 but only sells 5 copies a week. I cut the price to $2 and now it sells 50 copies a week. I am going to make more money despite the price being lower.

Valve knows this works, publishers know this works, and so the Steam Sales are a win win

Question: Why haven't we seen any 90s Nick Game Shows (Double Dare, Legends of the Hidden Temple, Nick Arcade) rereleased? Legality issues?
Answer: You don't normally see *any* game shows rereleased.  A big part of their profitability is contributions from sponsors, which don't continue paying out in reruns and syndication.

Question: why does congress have the power to completely alter a bill, changing the contents and even title, on its way through the house or senate? Why was this power created? Why has its apparent abuse not caused removal of the power?
Answer: Congress, and only Congress, has the power to choose each and every word of a bill. This includes the power to edit the bill before voting, and the power to vote on the final bill. If Congress couldn't do this, who would draft, edit, and pass laws?

Question: If you drain ground beef after you brown it for something like spaghetti, what is the difference between using a ground beef with more fat like 80/20 vs 90/10?
Answer: If you are draining off the grease the major difference is that you will have less meat. I do not think it is the full 10% of weight difference but it can be fairly close if you cook it long enough to render out most of the fat.

Question: How does the brain decide what little stupid things to remember, like what someone said or a song you heard once?
Answer: it's mostly based on the situation you're in. even if you just barely notice a balloon in the furthest corner of your view your brain could go like 'you member the time, you had that stupid little baby balloon? i member'

Question: why do auctioneers talk the way they do?
Answer: It's a traditional style that not all auctions use, but it helps to keep up the energy in the room and encourages potential buyers to make quick decisions. It also gets through lots quickly, which is important when you may be auctioning dozens or hundreds of lots in a day.

Question: Ir Syrian refugees are displaced by war, homeless and unable to gain access to the basics of modern life, how are they able to travel to the US?
Answer: The UN has many charters on the human rights of refugees, the Syrian refugees fall well into the categories protected by this charter. They are getting to the US in all kinds of ways but mostly on transportation sponsored by private citizens, the UN, and the US government. Its the same with other countries, Canada has a program in place to allow groups of private citizens who raise $30,000 to sponsor a refugee family, the government will pick up the rest of the tab.

Question: What causes schizophrenia? Can it be external stimuli or is it purely genetic?
Answer: It has been known to have the ability to be genetically passed, but one can go their entire lifespan without it ever surfacing. Triggers can cause the schizophrenia to surface and symptoms will become much more apparent. For example, smoking marijuana has been known to trigger schizophrenia in some, it doesn't *cause* it, they already had it.

It can also be developed with no prior symptoms in your family tree. It is a defect in the brain itself, so it is no external stimuli that brings it about.

Question: Polarizing filters for cameras and sunglasses
Answer: Light can be thought of as a wave. Imagine each tiny bit of light as a little sine wave squiggling through the air. Each one will have a direction, perpendicular to the direction it is traveling, which the wave is wiggling in. For example, you can wave up and down, or left and right (or any mixture of these directions).

Polarization is filtering light according to the direction of this wiggle. A polarizing filter only lets light through that is waving in one direction, say up and down for this example. Without getting into the physics, think of the light wave as your hand, palm open, and the polarizer as jail bars. Your hand has to line up to slip through the slot.

Bits of light waving left and right will be totally stopped by this filter. Bits at a 45 degree angle are half up and down plus half left and right; only the up and down part will pass through. This effect has nothing to do with color of the light.

Each photon of typical light is waving in a completely random direction. If you do the math, this means that a single polarizing filter will let half of the total light through (a 50% neutral filter). The light leaving the filter is now 100% waving in the up and down direction. If you were to put a second polarizing filter, rotated 90 degrees, it would block *all* of the light; not simply another 50% like a grey filter would.

Light that is not totally random is called 'polarized'. When light bounces off things, it becomes slightly polarized. This depends on the angle of the bounce. Here's a bit of a related example: push your hand towards your desk at an angle, palm down. It will easily 'skip' off the surface. Repeat with your pinky down, it jams up a bit. Do this straight at the desk and the rotation of your hand dosent mater; the shallower the angle, the bigger the difference is.

In the real world, this is important for glare off water or background light from a blue sky. Both of these sources are very polarized because of this reflection effect; but the light from your subject is not. A polarizing filter will block the glare, but let everything else through. Where as just a grey lens will make everything darker evenly.

tl;dr polarizers can selectively filter glare

Question: What is inflation?
Answer: Money is not wealth. Money is a good whose value changes in response to supply and demand. As money gets less valuable, people will want more of it for the same good. Inflation, is generally the situation where the value of money decrease. How this affects you is that when a currency is inflating, prices of goods will increase, as the money is less valuable. The opposite of this is deflation where the money is getting more valuable, and prices decrease. 

Inflation can happen for many reasons. As most currencies nowadays are 'fiat' currencies, the money is valuable only because people have faith that they will continue to be able to exchange it for goods and services. This faith is usually backed up by the government who prints the currency. However, if something happens to reduce people's confidence in the value of that currency, its value can fall leading to inflation. Another thing could be when new money is printed. The overall 'value' is still the same, but since the supply has increased, the value of each individual unit of conspiracy will fall.

Question: Why are so many rap/hiphop songs still about how good the rapper is?
Answer: Well, don't forget that rap has evolved to something of an art form. The same idea from the early days applies: rapping about dominance IS dominance IF you do it well. It's really just a platform on which you can do cool shit with the rhymes and good wordplay.

However, if the rapper can spit something really innovative and smart in an *I'msogood* song, then it gains extra value because **so many rappers have done it before**. If you can make such a song, which is easy to compare with other similar ones, actually sound rad and have really good rhymes, then you are indeed a quality rapper.

Question: Christians of ELI5: Why has our God stopped talking directly to people as He did in the Bible?
Answer: I grew up in the church and the way it's always been explained to me relies on an understanding of the Trinity; you have God the Father, God the Son, and the Holy Spirit. With the exception of some small windows of time, one of these three has been "present" on the Earth at all times. God the Father was present before He sent His son. Shortly after Jesus ascended into Heaven, the Holy Spirit was sent to occupy Earth. You'll notice, if I'm not mistaken, that all the instances of God audibly speaking to humans (with the exception of speaking to Jesus) are found in the Old Testament.

So, the short explanation is that God doesn't talk directly to His people because the Holy Spirit is here now to interact with us and the Holy Spirit rarely, if ever, audibly speaks to humans.

Question: How do companies like Amazon pick their "random winners" when the submissions are made online?
Answer: Well it could vary from system to system but all randomness in computers is actually pseudo-random. The closest you could get to true random in computers would be using something like _URL_0_ which I believe uses weather data to generate random numbers. As for how amazon decided to choose it's winner, there's no way to know for sure but I'd guess they added each submission to a table in a database that uses integers for unique IDs, then choose a random number and query for what user corresponds to that unique ID. Almost like choosing numbers from a hat.

Question: How do food franchises choose locations? And how do decide where to expand to?
Answer: most brands expand close to their initial location and then expand to newer markets as finances allow for it or never.  this is due to the strength of the brand recognition and taste preferences in the home market.  

when you expand to a new market with different tastes, you risk failing or having to change your menu, which will incur a lot of overhead as you would need to create new menu items, create different advertising, find different suppliers, etc.

Question: When a person gets sick with health insurance in the United States, why can the insurance companies back out of the coverage?
Answer: This is slowly changing in the United States because of the Affordable Health Care Act. Soon, all pre-existing conditions will be covered, and everyone will be able to get insured.

People ran into problems a few ways. First, if you want to buy private insurance, they have you fill out a long survey about all health problems you've experienced. Based on what you submit, they could reject you outright if you were too much of a risk or agree to cover you but not cover conditions related to certain health problems (again, this is changing). Some insurance policies have waiting periods. They will cover you, but they won't cover any pre-existing conditions for, say, 3 months.

Imagine if you are a person with a health condition. What do you do? If you get insurance through your employer, that insurance company can't deny your pre-existing condition. So, if you are sick, you might feel like you can never leave your job so you don't risk losing insurance coverage for your illness. If you are *really* sick and miss work and eventually get terminated, then you lose your policy through your employer and can't get a private policy to cover your condition because it is pre-existing. Again, the Affordable Health Care Act will hopefully fix that issue.

People with private policies also ran into really crazy insurance denials. For example, one woman's insurance company refused to cover her breast cancer treatment because she "lied" in her initial health survey and never mentioned that she had a history of acne. Again, the Affordable Health Care Act should fix that problem when people can no longer be denied for pre-existing conditions.

Other problems included annual and lifetime limits. Health care costs are very expensive in the US. If you need dialysis for a while, you might rack up millions in hospital bills. Insurance companies would basically do this: You, the patient, pay $300 a month to be covered. If you get sick, you have to pay the first $1,000 of bills each calendar year. After that, you pay 20% of the remaining bills. We, the insurance company, will pay 80% after the first $1,000, but only up to $1,000,000 in your lifetime. Of course, a million sounds like a lot, but if you get seriously ill with an expensive illness, it's not that outlandish to think about racking up $1,250,000 in medical bills over a few years. If you do, 80% of that is a million, and the insurance company won't cover anything else. In addition to you being responsible for the $250,000 (20%), you are now responsible for every penny after that point. Once again, the Affordable Health Care Act should fix that problem because it says insurance companies can no longer have annual or lifetime maximums.

Of course, most people don't rack up millions of dollars in bills, but even the insured can fall into heavy debt from getting sick. In the US, one hospital stay can cost tens of thousands of dollars. Even if the insurance company pays 80%, the patient often ends up with bills that are for *thousands.* These are patients who have insurance coverage and pay hundreds of dollars a month for that coverage! Unfortunately, unlike the rest, that problem won't change much with the Affordable Health Care Act.

Question: Why does my jaw hurt when I am going to cry but am trying not to?
Answer: Yes, it is normal. You are tensing the muscles in your jaw, both the muscles that close your jaw and the muscles that open it. This tires out these muscles, producing an effect that your brain senses as pain.

Question: why does moving an object, that's covered in a liquid, up make the liquid drip faster?
Answer: Think about momentum. Everything with mass, including the liquid, wants to remain at rest unless acted upon by an outside force. By raising it the liquid wants to remain behind and so drips more. It would be equivalent to gravity getting stronger for a moment.

Question: Why don't Christians celebrate Jewish holidays?
Answer: It is worth noting that it was not until 1965 (20 years after the Holocaust) that the Catholic Church (as part of the Second Vatican Council) ceased to hold Jews collectively responsible for the crucifixion of Jesus.  Christianity has a history of more than a millennium of anti-Semitism which it has only recently abandoned.  Historically, Christianity has been intensely hostile to Judaism and has regarded it as a grave and unforgiveable moral failing for any person to refuse to convert to Christianity.  That kind of history does not incline Christians to celebrate Jewish holidays or indeed, the holidays of any religion other than Christianity, which of course they believe to be the one and only true religion in the world, accept no substitutes.

Question: As a Canadian, I cannot understand why someone wouldn't vote for Ron Paul. Please explain the main reasons people disagree with him. I have made a list of pros and cons inside. Please add to it.
Answer: Ron Paul (and Libertarians) don't believe that regulatory agencies like the EPA or scientific organizations like NASA should be funded by the government at all (not even at the state level), and he's proposing cutting their budgets in half. They believe the free market is capable of regulating itself and private industries are better suited to scientific exploration (instead of NASA). With abolishing the EPA, the argument is that if a corporation is destroying the planet, the public won't buy their products, so essentially money will force them to stop polluting. In reality this is not often the case.

Ron Paul and Libertarians do not support the FDA or any sort of nationalized health care system (social security, medicare, etc.). Again, the logic is that private corporations can more efficiently and fairly provide those services.

Any sort of government mandate or government control of people's lives should be abolished in their view. This has benefits and costs. Good things like the war on drugs would end (very positive), but then trusting private companies to not excessively pollute the environment doesn't always work (negative).

Question: Why can't we use a game controller to pilot real helicopters?
Answer: There are 4 inputs for helicopter controls: Cyclic, collective, throttle, pedals.  Each change to one of those requires a change in the others to balance all the forces on a helicopter. Technically, you "could" make a videogame controller control a helicopter if the systems are fly-by-wire (I'm not entirely sure how many helicopters have that feature).  But that's not how they're built, and that's not how helicopter pilots have been trained to fly them. Flying a helicopter is a very specialized skill and when you start off flight training, most training aircraft are really dumpy with the oldest tech that still keeps them airworthy. Mechanically/hydralically driven R22's definitely wouldn't have the capability to be flown with a controller, and nobody is going to start their helo training in something badass that could. Also, most helicopters (all aircraft, for that matter) were designed and built before videogames were popular, and every generation of professional pilots up until very recently probably didn't play many videogames in their youths.  

In addition, a big part of flying a helicopter is "feel."  Helicopters are generally small and delicate flying machines that require constant small tweaks to all of the controls.  It's not like flying an airplane where you can just set the trim and generally not touch the controls.  You need the mechanical feedback of the forces acting on the helicopter, and a videogame controller wouldn't provide enough of that.  Hovering is really hard.  Vortex ring state is lethal. Takeoffs are dangerous, especially from a small landing pad like a hospital and when not facing directly into the wind.  You need to be able to feel when the controls get mushy or if you're needing a lot of pedal inputs, or if the wind is pushing you from the side, or if you're feeling enough lift with the normal amount of collective, etc.  Videogame controllers can't provide that to the extent the traditional setup can.

Question: How do bee hierarchies work?
Answer: Each successful hive has a queen. This queen might live several years, but she is only a good egg producer for a few years. Several things can make a hive rear a new queen. 

Scenario 1. Queen gets old. Eggs are not as steady as before. The workers harass the queen, chasing her around trying to get the egg she hasn't laid to fill the comb. Queen lays less, walks more, gets thinner. Workers notice this, start making queen cells, which are usually oriented 90 degrees from the regular comb. (Queen cell generally point down.) Old queen waits about a week or 2, then decides she's outta there. Takes 40% or more of the bees and leaves. Or, she may decide to hang out and live her last year or so with a new queen in the hive. This is rare, but not unheard of. Sometimes the old and new queen will fight to the death. I don't know what determines which course of action.

Scenario 2. Hive is full. No room for anymore eggs. Queen is at the top of the hive, and the honey is still coming in. Queen makes a note of it, slows down egg production. Workers notice, they harry the queen, she decides to go find a new rent with more room.

In both cases, the workers find an egg less than 3 days old, install it in a queen cell, then feed it what we call 'royal jelly'. This causes the less than 3 day old larva to turn into a queen. 
When she hatches, the new queen will most likely walk around, chirping a 'queen call' that other, almost hatched queens answer. Too bad for them because the already hatched queen walks over and stings them to death.

Sometimes not all the new queens are killed. In this case, there are 'after swarms'. This is when you get several new queens who mate, return to the hive to pick up their posse, then leave to start a new home. This is bad because each swarm takes almost 1/2 of the bees in the hive. After a swarm or 2, there are few bees left to the very weakened hive.

Question: Three Mile Island accident
Answer: Nuclear Energy is a kind of energy that requires us to take a very powerful reaction, make a safe place for it to be started, start it, watch it, control it.
Three Mile Island (TMI) accident was a situation gone bad and an inadequate design for proper watching/controlling.

The accident was caused by a bad valve.  This valve caused a situation in which the operator had a hard time understanding the problem.   
When this accident occured the control system was designed to make a noise when probelm A,B,C, and D happened.  when problems A-Z happened there were lights to turn on.  
When this valve got stuck most of the lights turned on and all of the announcements did.  This made everyone get very scared.   
When people get scared sometimes they don't think as well as they usually do.

The accident eventually caused a partial meltdown.  In nuclear reactors everyones big fears are meltdown (when the reactor melts into a big pile of unctrontrollable fission products) and environmental release.  

This reactor had a partial meltdown, which means it did not reach critical mass, and it did have an environmental release, which means some of the gasses got into the air. 

From this accident the USNRC required that all nuclear plants must share almost every mistake they make.    It is quite often that someone falling off a loading dock, falling down stairs, marking a part wrong, will cause a notificatio to the entire industry.

Also from this accident it caused the nuclear industry to adopt strict requirements on displays and alarms.   It categorizes the alarms in order of importance,  they must also follow ITAACs and other requirements.

At the time the plant was very new so the accident is well known to be causesd by wolverine and some crazy mutant made with parts of other mutants having torn the bitch up with their mutant powers. 
The enigma is how did the crazy mutants become mutants before the radioactive environmental release?

Edit: Terminology

Question: What exactly does a cinematographer do?
Answer: Cinematography is the art of using a camera to record images. 

A cinematographer is a basically a film, lighting and camera expert. He/she understands how to use various lens, types of film, camera devices (dollies, cranes), lights, and other techniques to get a particular shot that looks a particular way. 

A director might say, "I really want this shot to start as a close-up of a character's face, then move to pan around the entire room, showing us the way he lives, then end as a long shot of him exiting through the door." He might have some idea of how to accomplish this, but the cinematographer's job is to know EXACTLY what is required: what lens, how to set-up the camera, what sort of lighting to use, and what kind of filmstock to capture the best image possible. He/she then works with the crew to make it happen.

Sometimes a director will have a less specific idea, and the cinematographer makes it possible. When somebody is talking about the "look" of a film, they are usually praising the cinematographer because often they were the ones that actually "filmed" it.

**tl;dr:** director has a vision, cinematographer makes it happen.

Question: What would happen to the economy if the United States paid off their national debt?
Answer: You're in luck - the US government has an answer for you!  They did a secret study on the question back in 2000, when they were running a budget surplus before the Bush-era tax cuts.  It was secret, but NPR obtained the study by FOIA request several years ago and [summarized its conclusions,](_URL_1_) with a link to [the full study](_URL_0_):

When the US government borrows money, it does so by selling Treasury bonds.  The national debt is the amount of Treasury bonds owned by people other than the government.  So, paying off all the debt would mean the government buying up all Treasury bonds and "retiring" them from circulation.

But... US Treasury bonds have been considered so safe that trillions of dollars are invested in them; they're a cornerstone of the global economy.  Even just in the US, the Federal Reserve buys and sells them to guide the economy, and Social Security funds are invested in them.  Could the economy adjust if Treasury bonds were all retired?  It probably could, the report concluded, but it'd be difficult enough that the US debt should not all be paid off.

Obviously, this report might be biased, and it's probably not the whole story.  The concerns it brings up might diminish in the coming decade - especially given the US debt downgrade as a result of the debt ceiling crises, global financial reliance on Treasury bonds might dissipate.  And, there are countervailing concerns about obligating future generations' tax revenue that at least pressure us to dramatically lower the debt.  But, the report's concerns are quite real and should at least be considered.

Question: What is the "Burakumin problem" in Japan?
Answer: In the past, those Japanese whose work involved death (undertakers, knackers, etc.) were, for religious reasons, the "burakumin"  a caste of "untouchables", despised and banned from many aspects of public life.

And this discrimination continues even today  against their descendants. It is said that one of the major sources of income for private investigators in Japan is discreetly checking for burakumin ancestry in potential employees or romantic partners.

Question: why do dogs like sticking their heads out the window of a moving car?
Answer: Because no one told them it was unsafe.  If you weren't driving and no one told you as a child not to stick you arms and head out, you'd be doing it too.  Why?  Because it's awesome.

Question: How haven't sloths died out yet?
Answer: There are quite a lot of leaves for them to eat, plenty around to keep the population up, and they have sharp claws to ward off predators. Sloths can fuck you up if you aren't careful, as can most wild animals. They have slow metabolisms and usually move slow, hence the stereotypes, but they are doing just fine in the wild.

Question: The Terminal Velocity of water
Answer: Falling water will break into droplets. You've seen water droplets falling at terminal velocity: it's called rain.

The weather influences the droplet size. As you may have experienced, very small droplets fall more slowly.

[Details here.](_URL_0_)

Question: Pleading "nolo contendere" in court in America.
Answer: "Nolo contendere" means "I do not wish to contest [the charge]" in Latin, and many states refer to it as a "no contest" plea. It means just that -- you are not formally saying that you are guilty, but you *are* saying that you're not going to challenge the government's allegation that you are guilty or ask for the government to bring you to trial. You are thus consenting to the judge finding you guilty and sentencing you. The main difference between this plea and pleading guilty (or being found guilty at trial) is in other proceedings related to the same event. For instance, under the Federal Rule of Evidence, a conviction can be used to prove the facts that led to the conviction if the person pled guilty or went to trial, but not if they pled no contest.

Question: Why does flame make a noise when it is blown on?
Answer: Sound is just the movement of air molecules. When you blow on a flame the sudden change in air temperature creates a small pressure wave (as warmer air is less dense than cooler air) that you hear as audible sound. Its like mini-thunder

Question: Why is ADHD medicine a mixture of different amphetamine salts? Wouldn't only one do the the exact same thing?
Answer: The salts are right-handed and left-handed isomers of the drug.

Dextroamphetamine is the good stuff, it's right-handed if you will.

Levoamphetamine is the OK stuff, it's left-handed if you will.

And when these companies make the stuff, they get a 50-50 mixture... And then a principle comes into play that isn't thought of so much - there is only so much these pharmaceutical companies can efficiently chemically achieve. It's REALLY hard for them to separate the isomers of the drug... It's the most they do to get it to 75-25 (good-to-ok) and then they're satisfied selling it.

Question: The Bretton Woods System
Answer: Countries got together and decided they would create a system which made it easier for people to exchange products, services, and currency internationally. The system makes sense of everything by tying each country's currency to an exchange rate based on the US dollar.

Question: Is there a reason why the Lunar 'Seas' only appear on one side of the moon
Answer: This mystery is called the Lunar Farside Highlands Problem and dates back to 1959, when the Soviet spacecraft Luna 3 transmitted the first images of the dark side of the moon back to Earth. It was called the dark side because it was unknown, not because sunlight does not reach it. Researchers immediately noticed that fewer "seas" or maria existed on this portion of the moon that always faces away from Earth.

The solution arises from how the moon formed.

The general consensus on the moon's origin is that it probably formed shortly after the Earth and was the result of a Mars-sized object hitting Earth with a glancing, but devastating impact. This Giant Impact Hypothesis suggests that the outer layers of the Earth and the object were flung into space and eventually formed the moon.

The moon, being much smaller than Earth cooled more quickly. Because the Earth and the moon were tidally locked from the beginning, the still hot Earth -- more than 2500 degrees Celsius -- radiated towards the near side of the moon. The far side, away from the boiling Earth, slowly cooled, while the Earth-facing side was kept molten creating a temperature gradient between the two halves.

This gradient was important for crustal formation on the moon. The moon's crust has high concentrations of aluminum and calcium, elements that are very hard to vaporize.

When rock vapor starts to cool, the very first elements that snow out are aluminum and calcium. So aluminum and calcium would have preferentially condensed in the atmosphere of the cold side of the moon because the nearside was still too hot. Thousands to millions of years later, these elements combined with silicates in the moon's mantle to form plagioclase feldspars, which eventually moved to the surface and formed the moon's crust. The farside crust had more of these minerals and is thicker.

The moon has now completely cooled and is not molten below the surface. Earlier in its history, large meteoroids struck the nearside of the moon and punched through the crust, releasing the vast lakes of basaltic lava that formed the nearside maria that make up the man in the moon. When meteoroids struck the farside of the moon, in most cases the crust was too thick and no magmatic basalt welled up, creating the dark side of the moon with valleys, craters and highlands, but almost no maria.

Question: Why is GIF still the standard for animated image files rather than APNG or MNG?
Answer: Do you remember when America tried to go metric? It's kinda like that.

Question: Can fish see water?
Answer: Not an expert, but many fish have camouflage patters of light blue on their bellies, dark blue on their backs. This would seem to indicate that they can see the blue of the water at different depths.

Question: Why are older Jurassic Park movies more realistic than the newer ones like Jurassic World, do they not have the budget to get animatronics?
Answer: One of the main reasons why the original Jurassic Park looked so good is because various camera tricks were used to account for the limited technology. Even then, the CGI sucked and the animatronics--while they were definitely beneficial to the film--weren't enough to carry the weight of the special effects throughout the entire movie. 

So what was the solution? Using shadows, night scenes, and backgrounds that had similar colors to the CGI dinos being used. All of that contributed to making the blemishes of the dated technology far less noticeable than they would've been in brighter and/or more dynamic environments. 

Today, CGI is undeniably better than it used to be but generally, directing techniques don't utilize it to its full potential like Spielberg did with JP (mainly because it's easier, cheaper, and less time consuming). 

That said, current CGI may look cheesy, but if 90s movie directors used the same tactics that directors today use (and some certainly tried), it wouldn't just look bad, it would look offensively terrible.

Question: Why are the gender divisions in choruses? Wouldn't you get a fuller sound from integrated choruses?
Answer: Also, it's much more challenging for individuals to stay on pitch and in tune when surrounded by others singing different tunes. Keeping the voices together helps everyone song the right notes.

Question: why do older generations tend to "double click" everything on computers?
Answer: Have you ever gone to open a file on your desktop? Open up a file in your hard drive? All of those require double clicks.

And now that I said that, I think you might be referring to then constantly clicking something after the first double click. My suggestion? They're just old and don't realize they already clicked it or they're impatient and tired of waiting. Which is kind of ironic.

Question: What is with all the gold-buying shops popping up all of the sudden?
Answer: The price of gold isn't at the highest ever, but it's pretty close.  And people are still in a bad state so selling that gold is more necessary then it was in other times.

Question: How a country's mortality rate can be anything but 100%
Answer: Mortality rates are the number of people that die **each year** out of a sample of one thousand. Obviously they will all die eventually, but they won't all die in the same year.

Question: Why is it illegal for people to take photos of someone without their consent public but the paparazzi are allowed to take photos of celebrities and people in the spotlight
Answer: I don't think this is a true statement, I think (and it depends on the country you live in..) you can take photos of someone in a public place...

But there can be a restrictions on the publication of photography.

Question: Why is deodorant only okay to put on your armpits?
Answer: If it's only a deodorant, other than maybe leaving visible stuff on your skin, it's not a big deal.  Many deodorants are also anti-perspirants which is a drug that produces a reaction that prevents you from sweating in that area.  It's not a good idea to do that all over because your body will have a more difficult time regulating temperature.

Question: Why would I want my food to be antibiotic-free?
Answer: Farmers really want to try to make sure their herds/flocks grow big and strong as quickly as possible.  They want their animals to stay healthy too.  So, to do that, they have for years given small doses of antibiotics to their animals to keep them from getting sick.  Food safety advocates and medical professionals are worried though that this could make humans sicker in the long run.

Antibiotics are great!  They keep us from dying from stuff like tuberculosis or staph infections.  But they don't always kill all the bad bacteria when we take them.  They basically give our immune system a huge advantage in fighting infection.  But some of the bad germs survive and become that much stronger.  The big fear is that you giving farm animals antibiotics when they don't need them, it could make some human diseases harder to treat down the line.  We already know that TB and staph have some really nasty drug resistant strains out in the wild, and we don't want more of them.

We're also not quite sure how these antibiotics given to animals that give us meat or milk might affect us.  There are lots of rumors that the antibiotics given to animals might be doing things to humans.  We're still not sure if these things are good or bad, or if they're wide spread.  Scientists are still figuring it out but some think it might be affecting how quickly people are growing or that it might be killing the good bacteria in our bodies.

Environmental activists also worry that these medicines might be getting into ground water and affecting the ecosystem.

With all these concerns, and with people wondering more and more where their food comes from, grocers have started slapping "antibiotic free!" labels on their food packaging.  It was a smart move: "organic" and "all natural" foods have become very popular and the labeling makes people feel better about what they're buying.

In the end, though, we don't really know if these farm practices are really as bad as we worry they are.  The concerns we have are very real, and very valid, but scientists need to do a lot more research into how what the farmers do affect the rest of us.  There is also very little oversight into the way food is marketed and labeled, so we don't always know if the foods labeled as "antibiotic free" are really as free of antibiotics as they claim.  Mostly, it's good marketing.  We buy the "antibiotic free" meat and milk because we feel better about ourselves when we do.

Michael Pollan's "The Omnivore's Dilemma" covers a lot of this (where our food comes from and how farm animals are raised) if you're  interested.

Question: How did they produce and put Zyklon B into the cans without killing the workers making them, when it reacts being exposed to oxygen?
Answer: Zyklon B was produced in pellet form which only released a gas when exposed to water and heat. The pellets could be handled in relative safety otherwise.

Also, materials which cannot be exposed to oxygen could be mechanically canned in sealed conditions where air wasn't able to enter. Consider compressed CO2 canisters: Clearly workers aren't all in a room full of CO2 stuffing them full with their bare hands. Technology exists where materials in one tank can be transported into other containers, via what are typically called "pipes".

Question: Why does shampoo not lather up well when you shampoo for the first time in a while?
Answer: My sister told me a long time ago that dirt is the enemy of suds and that stuck with me.  But it's basically true.  Your hair has oils that are important to its structure.  Those oils allow dirt to cling to it.  Shampooing strips away those oils and thus the dirt.  but remember dirt is the enemy of suds so you won't lather up the first time you do it.  That's partially why shampoo instructions say to do it twice, to waste more product and to make sure your hair is actually clean.  The second one will probably lather up considerably.  Alternatively if you wash your hair too much it will always lather but you are doing considerable damage to your hair.

Question: Why is Toys R Us the company responsible for the debt required to buy itself out?
Answer: Because the old management team agrees to sell the company to the new management team.  This is known as a 'friendly' deal.  The new management team, who are technically 'employees' of the private equity team, arrange for the debt too be paid by the cash flows of the company.  

ELI5: your dad owns a restaurant that produces $1000 of profit per month.  Your dad sells it to a friend.  That friend goes to a bank and says, "I'm buying a restaurant and I need a loan. I will pay you $750/mo and that cash will come out of the profits of the restaurant." The bank says, "OK, we have looked at the finances of the restaurant and we think this is a good deal. Here's the money. ***HOWEVER***, if you can't pay the loan, we are going to take the restaurant from you and sell it at a bankruptcy auction."

Question: why are most if not all of the zippers on my clothing made by the brand YKK?
Answer: About half the zippers manufactured are made by YKK, a Japanese company. Zippers are finicky and YKK makes reliable zippers. One reason it has managed to stay on top of the game is that it controls almost the entire manufacturing process, from smelting its own brass to making the final product, which guarantees it can keep making reliable zippers and has the added bonus of helping to hide its corporate secrets from competitors. There are some competitors which are cheaper, mainly in China, but the zippers break more easily and a lot of the developed world is wary of lax regulation in China and don't want lead in zippers. Additionally, starting a zipper manufacturing company would take a lot of capital and you would have to get a pretty big market share to make a sizeable revenue stream, so there are high barriers to entry. Here's an article that goes into more depth: _URL_0_

tl;dr: YKK makes good zippers, controls the whole process, and it's hard to get into the zipper game.

Question: How do games with 2-bit color have transparency?
Answer: One of the four "colors" is allocated as transparent.  There's another bit that can say what transparent should be represented as, which in Pokemon's case is represented as white.

So for Pokemon, the color scheme is not white, light grey, dark grey and black.  It's transparent, light grey, dark grey and black.  Transparent is represented as white.

Backgrounds don't need transparency, so they can get the full white, light grey, dark grey, black color scheme.

Question: Multivitamins
Answer: There's a lot of stuff going on in this question, here's an ELI5 attempt:

1.) Absorption - this is complex unto itself but in short you have a few different factors at play. So even though you may be ingesting 1000% of the recommended intake of a vitamin or mineral you may not be absorbing anywhere near that.

1-a) Saturation - Some vitamins and minerals just get passed once the body is saturated. Magnesium is a great example, once your body has enough it just passes through. 

1-b) Chelation - Another factor that influence absorption of minerals (pure elements like zinc, copper, iron, etc) are the chelations. Chelations basically make the mineral more digestible, going back to magnesium, magnesium  comes in multiple chelations e.g. magnesium tartrate, magnesium threonate, and so on. Different chelations have different potentials to be absorbed. For example magnesium citrate may be less available for absorption than magnesium tartrate. 

1-c) Open Pathways - Some minerals compete with each other for absorption, for example I believe calcium and zinc get absorbed by the same pathways (think of them like doors) and as a result a dose of both can result in less absorption of either or both.

1-d) Digestion - A multi-vitamin is really dense nutritionally and may not be fully unwound or digested. Think of this as trying to read an entire encyclopedia in one borrowing period from a library. You can help aid absorption by taking MVs with a meal to slow the emptying process.

1-e) Solubility - Water soluble vitamins break down in water, fat soluble vitamins break down in fat. IIRC the fat soluble vitamins are A, D, E, and K (the remainder (B's and C) are water-soluble) if there is no fat present when you ingest the fat soluble vitamins they get passed through the digestive tract. It is VERY hard to over dose on water soluble vitamins, while over-dosing on fat soluble vitamins takes a while for the super saturation to accumulate.

2.) Overdose risk - There are few factors here as well. But in short, if the pills killed people they wouldn't be sold.

2-a) RDI vs RDA vs TUL 

2-a-1) The RDI (recommended daily intake) is set for substances that are necessary for health and typically set at a rather low level. These also tend to be applied to things you have to seek out as opposed to things that are easy to acquire. This level prevents diseases of deficiency but does not necessarily guarantee the benefits of saturation or potential benefits of super saturation. Most minerals and vitamins have RDIs.

2-a-2) RDA (recommended daily allowance) is set for substances that are easier to acquire and need to be limited to prevent too much intake. Again these levels are typically set to avoid illness not necessarily optimize health. An example of something with an RDA is sodium, which easy to ingest in abundance and can be harmful if over consumed.

2-a-3) TUL (tolerable upper limit) is basically an RDA for things that are a bit harder to ingest but can still be toxic in large doses. This is typically set at the level where the benefits of saturation or super saturation start to give way to the harm of "toxicity".

For a hypothetical example, a mineral may have an RDI of 10mg which avoids a disease associated with deficiency, a vitamin may provide 50mg (500% of daily value), recall that you don't actually absorb all 500%, but the TUL could be as high as 150mg. Remember, if MVs killed, nobody would buy them.

Question: Who/what is John Barleycorn? What exactly is this reference implying/trying to accomplish?
Answer: [Jack London wrote an autobiographical novel](_URL_1_ about dealing with his alcoholism. He used John Barleycorn in the title because its a reference to hard liquor like sourmash whiskey.  

On a somewhat lighter note you reminded me of the band  
 [Traffic](_URL_0_) whos song John Barleycorn was popular at one time.

Question: Why aren't laptop graphics cards removable like ram or hard disk?
Answer: Graphics cards produce a lot of heat, so upgrading one might lead to a situation where the GPU puts out more heat than the cooling system is designed for. 

And to save on costs and space, most of the time graphics cards are soldered into the motherboard instead of creating multiple unique sockets, or the laptop just uses the integrated graphics card of the processor.

Question: How is it that game designers can make better looking games over the lifespan of a console (Xbox, ps3) yet not change the hardware?
Answer: Because they learn more about how they can use the hardware over time. As they experiment and learn it's capabilities and limitations they can make it do more and more awesome things.

Just like how skateboarders learn how to do more complex and cooler tricks over time with the same boards.

Question: Why is it that bookies can survive by simply taking peoples bets. You would think that on a game like the superbowl a bookie would have a 50/50 chance of turning profit or losing a ton
Answer: Bookies make money because they don't pay even odds.

All the bets are placed in a pool, and then the bookie's fee (take) is removed. The rest of the pool is used to pay out the bettors for whichever team wins, proportionally to each bettor's wager.

Question: If you cant vote or comment on an archived post then why the number of votes are different each time i refresh the page?
Answer: Ever since Reddit removed the ability to see the exact number of upvotes and downvotes on any given post/comment, they have slightly "spoofed" the numbers to make it less "exact." I know they have reasons for this that included upvote/downvote botting, but I don't remember the specifics.

Question: When an object gets stuck in your eye and doesn't come out, where does it go?
Answer: It comes out. Just because you didn't see it come out doesn't mean it didn't.

Or it is still in there. But it cannot go around behind your eye or anything so that is doubtful.

Question: Why is the nomenclature for "permanganate" so different than the usual nomenclature for polyatomic anions?
Answer: If I recall my chemistry correctly the per- prefix signifies that it is as oxidised as it can be.

Question: Why did the first world war start and indirectly influence the start of the second world war?
Answer: After World War One ended in 1918, Germany had to give up land and was banned from having armed forces. They also had to make large financial payments to the victors of WW1

There was a lot of unease, unhappiness and Germany being in a position where they just couldn’t get going because of all these penalties.  Everyone was upset and needed a spark.  Along cake a leader who was charismatic, tapped into this anger and promised to deliver greatness and a return to their empire.

In 1933 the German people voted for a leader named Adolf Hitler, who led a political party in Germany called the National Socialists or Nazis. Hitler promised to make his country great again and quickly began to arm Germany again and to seize land from other countries.

Shortly before 5am on Friday 1st September, 1939, German forces stormed the Polish frontier. Tanks and motorised troops raced into the country over ground, supported by Stuka dive bombers overhead. A total of 1.25 million Germans soldiers swept into Poland

So had WW1 and it’s direct results lead to the rebubbling up of ww2

Question: Why does Coca-cola still advertise?
Answer: I discovered some years ago that the point of most advertising at a certain marque level was not to acquire new customers, but to retain them or even stop "buyer's regret".

For example, BMW pretty much never expect somebody to see one of their adverts and think "Oh, that car looks good, I'll buy one of those!", because who the hell makes a purchasing decision of that size based on advertising? Most of their advertising is actually focused on people who *recently bought* one of their cars and is sat there thinking how much of a Ford or GM they could have got for 40% less. It prevents buyer's regret, and pushes them from just a buyer into a brand-loyal fan. It also enhances brand value in general, which is critical when establishing how much your brand is worth financially.

Brand value is where Coca-Cola come in. Frequently in the UK people will say "it feels like Christmas now", once the "Christmas is coming" Coke ad with santa on lorries going through town is aired. Think about how powerful that is: people associate the celebration of the Messiah's birth, or perhaps the most intense emotional experience of the year that you can point to on a calendar, with a can of *sugar water*.

When you hear "Coke", you immediately think of the colours of the can, the taste of the drink, and have an emotional response which is probably very happy, positive and affirming. That's what a lifetime of Coca-Cola telling you what they stand for has done to you.

Recipe-wise, it's almost identical to Pepsi, but think about how you feel when you think of Pepsi, and how you feel when you think of Coca-Cola. That difference? That's the advertising. And it kicks in when you're stood in front of a fridge about to make a purchasing decision.

Most of the Coca-Cola sold around the World is produced under license, it doesn't come from a magic well, and is relatively easy to synthesise. So how much would the company be worth if it weren't anything special? Their entire advertising strategy is to increase brand value which also helps them whenever a customer hesitates about buying their product.

**EDIT:** I strongly recommend if you're interested in how advertising really works, that you check out the counter-argument to all advertising, Ad Busters magazine. [Their website is good](_URL_0_), but not nearly as awesome or eye-opening as their magazine.

**EDIT 2:** Some people are saying the difference between Coke and Pepsi is "obviously" different. Science says different. You might want to read [this paper that says mental association with brand values is more important than taste](_URL_2_), so your brain is tricking you somewhat. [Here is a good little write-up on neuromarketing](_URL_3_) that asks some interesting questions.

**EDIT 3:** This is now my highest ranked comment on Reddit, and I just noticed I got Reddit Gold. Thanks! I really appreciate it, whoever you are.

**EDIT 4:** [Filbs](_URL_4_) mentioned in a reply to this post that it would be great to have somewhere where we could rip apart advertising campaigns and spots and work out advertiser motivation. As this discussion has shown, some ads are very straight to the point, some are quite complex and involve complex layering of emotions. Also, I felt it would be good to collect and discuss links to papers, articles and lectures on the science behind advertising. I'm quite well read on this area, but I'm not a professional, so I was reluctant, but I realised my fascination with this area is above and beyond the casual, so I present to you: /r/adbreakdown/ Please do consider joining in if this is an area that fascinates.

P.S. This morning [this appeared in my news feed](_URL_1_) and I thought some of you might appreciate its "honesty" ;-)

Question: How can the Japanese still be allowed to hunt whales in the southern ocean.
Answer: They're doing it "for science", and selling the corpses afterwards.

The claim is that the age of a whale can only be reliably determined by the stones in their ears, and getting to that data requires killing the whale.

Question: when theres an oil spill why cant we just light it on fire and let the oil burn out?
Answer: Sometimes it is burned to control a spill, but burning crude oil releases a lot of toxins that aren't so good for humans like carbon monoxide, lead, nitrogen oxides, etc.

Question: Why can you hear an initial "poof" the instant a firework explodes, even before the boom comes a second later?
Answer: It's not instantaneous, it just happened a couple seconds earlier. There's a small explosion- the *whoompf*- that's the mortar launching the firework (if you're paying attention, you can see the shell, which usually glows faint orange, rising), and then, when the shell reaches the right height, there's the much larger *boom* of the main charge, which ignites the glowing pieces and throws them out in that familiar flower pattern.

Question: LP's, EP's and whatever other P's are out there.
Answer: If you're talking about records, LP is Long Playing, or a full length album, EP means Extended Play, it contains more than 2 songs, but not as many as a full album.

Question: When a mountain climber dies on Everest, why do they just leave them there and not pick up the body with a helicopter?
Answer: Helicopters can't get enough lift to fly at the upper altitudes of Everest.  Even if they could, there are very few locations they could safely land and hauling a body to one of those locations is difficult To the point of imperiling the lives of those who would attempt it.

Question: why acid doesn't burn the test tube but it will burn other things?
Answer: The pyrex glass used in test tubes is extremely non-reactive

Question: Why does looking near a bright light help me sneeze?
Answer: It's a reflex that resulted from some nerves getting crossed during development.

Question: Why does doing this with a pen make a lighter's flame 'float'? Video included
Answer: 1 The flame is not floating

2 There is a part of the flame that you can see because it radiates in the visible part of the spectrum and another which is radiating in the UV part of the spectrum.

3 Blue ballpen inks are composed by some 40% substituted triarylmethane dyes. These chemicals have insaturated bonds and oxygen-containing radicals, something that butane (lighter gas) has not. Therefore they burn easily and energetically.

4 What you see is the combustion of the dye in the lower part of the flame where you have more oxygen and less soot is present. In the upper part the temperature is reduced and there is more incandescent soot so that you can see a transition fron UV, to visible violet and to the rest of the visible spectrum


Source: google.

Question: What are the chemicals for synthetic drugs derived from?
Answer: Not a chemistry expert,  but chemicals are derived from many sources.   Lots are produced by bacteria and then purified or distilled,  or they use other chemicals to separate it individually.   Different molecules can break bonds or form bonds so they combine all of these on certain ways to form what they want.   Valium is derived from a precursor 5-chloro-isatoic anhydride which is commercially available and has many other uses.

Question: Why do "AIDS treatment breakthroughs" keep making it to the front page every week when all of them are nowhere near proven or relevant yet?
Answer: This isn't an HIV or Aids question, this is a why do people jump to conclusions so quickly question.

Question: Why aren't lateral passes more common in the NFL?
Answer: They're risky.  It is hard to gauge where another player is in the heat of the moment and if they are an inch ahead of you that is an illegal forward lateral.  The ball is also loose.  Unlike a normal pass if the ball hits the ground the ball is still in play.  You can think if it like any fumble.

Question: What is going on in North Korea right now?
Answer: Well, I really don't know the politics about North Korea but it's facist, authoritarian and totalitarianistic. 
Not Democratic as far as I'm concerned.

Why?
People blindly follow Kim Jong-un or are forced to or they face persecution. Much of the people's lives are controlled and closely monitored. Foreign media is strictly prohibited. Though, some citzens manage to have their own DVD players, MP3s and modern technology, they risk it.
The hotel there still has the box-y color TVs from the 90s as for most people. The radio cannot be closed, often blares propaganda, it can only be dimmed. Defacing the Kims' pictures or even ripping their image in a newspaper will result in harsh consequence.

People are often persecuted without trial, consequences are often harsh and lead to extreme violate of human dignity and lead to the gulags some which are worse than Hitler's concentration camps. 

As for the history, I don't know much either but I'll give you what I know, the Koreas seperated as a result of the Korean War around 60 years ago, aside from epigenetics, there's nothing genetically different between people who live in North or South Korea, even the Korean [languages](_URL_1_) pass the border, the only thing that seperates is their nation. Anyways, after the war, Kim-Il Sung was in place to run the DPRK and a ceasefire was made (still here up to this day) and resulted in the demiliterized zone or DMZ, it's a buffer zone and the most heavily guarded border between the North and the South.

Kim-Il Sung died in 1993, his body was embalmed and set up for everyone to see in some place, kind of like how Lenin is set up. (Kim Jong-il now resides next to him) So yeah Kim Jong-il cam into power and the 90s was a horrible time for North Koreans, the USSR was a big supplier of food but it's downfall lead to lack of imports which includes food which had a catatrophic effect on the North Koreans, it wasn't in a position to support it's population, North Korea is very mountinous, doesn't have much percipitation thus, most land is not arable (around 20% is) there is more land to graze than to farm.

As a result of Kim Il-Sung's death, the millenials were not as influenced as those who grew up worshipping him or remember to be under his spell, so they are more open minded in a sense.

A few extra things:
A major influence of why North Korean's escape to China is seeing foreign media and they see how much of a better world there is and it is the opposite of what has been hammered in their head for years.
Other major reasons include being destitute, economic reasons and search for freedom.
Defection is on the rise. Thousands have defected since the 90s, there's more and mroe every years, virtually all defections are to China, this is not their final destination but somewhere safer than NK, but once they're in China they're not done yet, they are not refugees according to the Chinese government and  once caught, they are sent back and face concentration camps, forced abortion and death, so North Koreans often resort to go into hiding and being low profile or having to work for years so they can be smuggled to South Korea or some streak of luck that may bring them somewhere safe. Some resort to being wed to Chinese farmers, but they do not go far from there.

*North Korean Christians are the most prosecuted in the world. There are a few churches at Pyongyang for show but not for religious reasons.

* There were several incidents of foreigners held in camps.
* You can actually visit North Korea, they let in about 1000 tourists a year, but your visit is strictly chreographed, you may not wander freely.
* That big hotel in the middle of Pyongyang is just sitting there, they're working on it but not yet availible.

* The gulags are horrid, read Escape from Camp 14 or google "Unspeakable Horror of North Korea Gulags" (Too afraid too google atm, tho it yields no pictures of dying people, but it's a video full of non-realistic drawings, it's NSFW and it gave me nausea)

FMI recommendations:
* Go find some TED talks about NK

* "Escape from Camp 14" -some book really interesting

* _URL_0_

* Etherium Sky's documentary on North Korea (My favorite documentary, it really shows the sprit of people)

* Some Vice stuff.

Question: Why do perishable ingredients such as butter, milk, or eggs no longer have to be refrigerated after they've been baked into a cake or cookies?
Answer: The proteins and fats have been cooked and thoroughly denatured, and most of the water content has been driven off, these two steps do the most to prevent the cookie from reacting with oxygen and going 'off.' Consider when eggs are pan fried and the liquid part of the egg changes color and solidifies -- that's thermal denaturing; what we called being 'cooked.' This turns the protein strands from a wildly wavy, unconnected net into a tight, coherent structure that can be picked up with a spatula and slid onto a piece of toast.

Dairy products like milk and butter also suffer from oxygen exposure; that's how butter goes rancid and milk goes 'off.' Basically they consist of milk proteins and butterfat suspended in water; butter is just concentrated milk fat, with very little water. 
The French use a [butter dish](_URL_0_) with an air lock to hold butter at room temperature for weeks at a time. The water in the lower part of the dish seals the butter compartment off from the air, and preserves the butter. And your butter is still spreadable! Awesome!

They're still susceptible to bacterial contamination, but it's really the water content that does the most damage in terms of any kind of contamination. Let's compare really crispy cookies with soft cookies, which ones mold first? The soft cookies get moldy first, because they're moist and still have some appreciable water content -- which mold loves. Water and sugar make mold happy! Decrease those ingredients and you'll get items that last a long time. Think of zwieback toast, Swedish flatbreads, hard chocolate chip cookies or even something like baked pita chips -- all those items are pretty perfectly dehydrated, thus they last pretty much forever!

**TL;DR:** Cooking good, water bad. Sealed containers good, oxygen bad.

Question: Why does it seem like almost nobody in the world wears socks?
Answer: I have no idea what planet you are from, but here on Earth we men regularly wear socks. While I admit to working from anecdotal evidence I can't think of a signle friend who doesn't

Is it possible some of these men you're seeing are wearing below-ankle socks and therefore it's hidden by the shoe?

Question: If SpaceX founds a Moon colony,whose law applies? Can they simply declare Elon Musk Republic?
Answer: National sovereignty is defined by having the force to defend your borders  &  getting recognition from other countries.  We have some laws about space but it's all very abstract since nobody's meaningfully had the capability of colonizing there.

A huge practical difficulty would be that terrestrial governments who disapproved of the colony would have control over terrestrial launches of resupply missions.  If the base wasn't self-sustaining, it would be at the mercy of terrestrial governments to allow those launches.

If you were self-sustaining, you'd be pretty much independent until a planetary government thought it was worth the immense expenses involved in sending a bunch of space marines up to subjugate you.  At that point, you'd have to fight something akin to the American Revolution - a war with a superior but vastly distant power.

Question: How timezones work in Antarctica?
Answer: time only has meaning when you are using it.  Timezones only have meaning if multiple people a distance apart were using it.  So if you travel across the US in a train, you might have trouble getting places on time unless you accounted for time zones.

but there are no people living in the antartic except for a few scientific outposts and whalers (or some other group of people).

if you work for a base, you would use base time (Which, as the map shows, is synced up to home time).  if you were dogsledding alone across the ice, then who cares what time it is (dogs can't read clocks).  if you were travelling to another base, then you would have radioed ahead and worked out any problems ahead of time.

This works rather well considering the environment in antartica.  you'll get very long days, and at some point the sun won't even set.  What does a time zone matter if you aren't trying to coordinate with the sun?  plus, its so cold you'll be staying in the base when you can anyway.  

So basically, you'll use base time until you reach someone else's base.  Base time is based on your home country's time.  But you don't really follow it in the usual sense because base time might be far from the sun's time.  so you won't car that you are leaving for a hike at 2 am (eastern russia time), just that you need to be back by 3:30 when the sun dips below the horizon and the wendigos come out.

Question: Why are drugs bad for me but make me feel so good?
Answer: They release large amounts of endorphins in the brain (the same chemicals that we have when we are happy or excited) and when the drug wears off the brain goes into an almost relapse where it is so low on those endorphins from getting tricked by the drug you are in a lull and craving for more drugs. That is the laymans terms not very scientific

Question: What gives music an emotional feel?
Answer: Notes represent pitch, which is measured in absolute Hz values.  But they can be re-arranged in infinitely many different ways.  Overall, certain patterns emerge in song-writing in terms of **melody  & ** **harmony** (both dealing with pitch and tempo) and **timbre**
 which is the quality of the instrument, voice, or percussion.

Each system of music can roughly be identified by how they divide their notes between octaves.  If you take the frequency in Hz (eg 500) of any pitch, its double (1000Hz) is an octave above and its half is an octave below (250 Hz).  Perceptually, however, there are always the same number of distinct 'tones' in a scale.

In just one tradition - the western one - there are 12 possible equally spaced notes in a scale.  Major and Minor scales are 2 of several possible 'modes' which contain 7 of the 12 possible notes arranged in an order.  A lot of the 'emotion' comes from the relative arrangement of these notes.  The same song transposed from A major to B major might 'sound' very different but in terms of physics there is no real change (relatively).

But other emotional elements come from outside the pitch: take any single line of melody and alter the timbre:  use different instruments and quality of sound or try altering the tempo.  Without any change in pitch, you can definitely alter the emotional content of a song.

Question: How did Prohibition ever get enacted?
Answer: One aspect of the history that's not often talked about is that Americans drank a lot of alcohol prior to prohibition. I mean, like, a really lot. About a pint per day for every man, woman and child. That's because the government used to give out money to farmers if they would produce corn. Soon, American farmers were producing more corn than people in the country could eat, so we had to come up with ways to use corn without simply cooking it up an eating it. Later on, we'd start using it to make corn syrup to sweeten things, and a version of plastic that was less bad for the earth, but before all of that the simplest way to get rid of our extra corn was to make liquor out of it. We had so much cheap corn that people made a lot of liquor, and when you have a lot of something, you can't charge too much for it, because people can always buy it somewhere else for cheaper. So before prohibition, the price for liquor made out of booze was really low. It was, in fact, the cheapest drink available in most places, so people drank it all the time. It was common for people to have it on their lunch break at work. Religious people were, for the most part, in favor of Prohibition, but politicians were for it in part because Americans really were drinking too much.

[citation](_URL_0_)

Question: How do stretchable things stretch?
Answer: Your question pretty much has to do with material science. I’m no expert but I just took that class last semester in college. Rubber bands are a polymer, meaning that they’re chains of multiple repeat molecules. Like other kinds of polymers, they can be stretched without deformation (breaking or any kind of altering of its integrity) due those many chains. This is because the multiple chains coil and assort themselves in an asymmetric way, so that when they’re pulled they straighten and thus can be elongated. Now not all polymers behave this way due to different types of chains, and how many chains they have, etc, but we don’t need to get into that. 

Now onto springs. Metal doesn’t “stretch” like polymers do, but metal is still elastic. Meaning, it can bend without deforming (depending on stress and type of metal). This is due to the inner metallic bonding. Metallic bonding is much weaker in comparison to other types of molecular bonding, so the atoms can moved more “freely”. So when a spring is compressed or stressed, you’re technically just bending it like you’re bending a straight piece of wire. The difference is just the shape of the metal. 

I hope this answers your questions!

**edit:** grammar

Question: Why does the IRS let people go years/decades without filing their taxes but then audit people that do file their taxes on time? Wouldn't their energy be better spent going after those that have W2s but haven't filed in years?
Answer: For the large part, a lot of individuals who don't file in a given year likely have paid more in taxes than they owe, or owe a relatively modest amount.  Those people, even if they did something wrong in the eyes of the law (not filing when you overpaid by itself is not illegal), aren't worth going after.    However, if the IRS has any red flags that you might have underpaid a lot of money, they will investigate if resources permit.

Afaik, child support is not handled by the IRS either, so it's out of their jurisdiction.

Question: what would happen if I was charged for a crime that became legal?
Answer: Disclaimer: I am not a lawyer.

If you are arrested for, but not yet tried and convicted of a crime before the activity was voted on and made legal, that may be your only chance of not going to prison. The odds of that happening are very slim, however, since even after a bill is passed, it may take months before it is put into effect; longer than you'd be waiting to be put on trial.

It may come down to which state you're in and what judge and jury you get. It also depends on your lawyer, too. A good lawyer who actually has time to work on your case may do his/her best to ensure the trial get delayed until such time as the passed bill goes into effect to at least give you a better chance of winning an appeal should you still be convicted.

Even if you are arrested for a crime that later becomes legal, the DA may still look to charge you with other crimes related to your arrest so you'd still have to face fines and/or sentencing.

The only way to guarantee you wouldn't be convicted after the crime becomes legal is if that is covered under part of the legalization bill. That is, unless sometime before then the state you're charged in had already passed a law that would protect you if you're awaiting trial and what you're arrested for/charged with becomes legal.

If you were arrested, convicted, and sentenced before the activity you took part in became legal, there is still no state that has signed any bill that would release you from prison due to its legalization. Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper attempted to pass a bill in 2014 that would release people charged with marijuana offenses since marijuana became legalized in that state, but I haven't found any information saying that the Bill had passed.
[Colorado Governor Set To Release Those Convicted On Marijuana Related Charges….](_URL_1_) 

In 2015, it was ordered that 6,000 prisoners who were serving sentences for marijuana based offenses be released from prison before serving their full sentence due to new sentencing guidelines that have reduced charges for those crimes.
[6,000 People to be Released from Federal Prison….](_URL_0_)

Question: Why big companies like Samsung don't create their own Operating Systems so they could compete with Mac OS X and Windows?
Answer: I disagree with your assertion of an operating system monopoly.   You mention Windows and OSX.  There is also the dozens of Linux distros. There is IBM AIX, and Oracle (formally Sun) Solaris UNIX.    Having your own proprietary OS leaves you with the challenge to support it, make sure developers write apps for it, and otherwise convince hardware vendors to promote it for their systems.  This is hugely expensive, and almost for sure not worth it for anyone.  It is *applications* that drive adoption, not the bare OS.

Question: Why do all the people who comment on no sleep believe the stories?
Answer: > Why do all the people who comment on no sleep believe the stories?

They don't, but one of /r/nosleep's rules is that you have to pretend that you do for the purposes of your comments.  It's essentially a sort of collaborative fiction-writing subreddit.

For instance, from their sidebar rules:

 > Remember: everything is true here, even if it's not. Stories should be believable, but realistic fiction IS permitted. Readers are to assume everything is true and treat it as such. These stories are here for your entertainment. If a story is too unbelievable, please report it for mod review.

Question: Is Sharia Law a legitimate threat in the US?
Answer: Muslims form less than 3% of the US population. I don't see how such a tiny group could impose its own laws on the US, any more than tiny Christian populations can impose Christian laws on Islamic countries. Even when the British rules vast swathes of the Islamic world they could not impose Christian or even European common law on the populations.

Question: The subjunctive case in English and the difference between "were" and "was"
Answer: First, let's be clear what the subjunctive is *not*: (1) Minor quibble: it's not a "case" (case is something that substantives have; let's deal with that some other day), it's actually a "mood". Verbs take different moods depending on the relationship between the sentence and reality. (2) It's for special occasions; your average everyday sentence is "indicative" (the indicative is really the default mood for most verbs you use).

Just to give a very basic illustration:

 >  May the force be with you.

This sentence is effectively subjunctive. It's not *strictly speaking* subjunctive, but really it's close enough ("may" can sometimes stand in for the subjunctive). FWIW, a *true* subjunctive would be

 >  The force be with you.

Now, the bog-standard *indicative* form of this sentence would read like one of the following:

 >  The force is with you.  
 >  The force will be with you.

In the *indicative* version, you're making a statement of fact. In the *subjunctive* version, you're expressing a *wish* for how things ought to be; it's a situation where the actuality of your sentence is either ambiguous (maybe the force won't feel like being with you!) or unfulfilled (the force will probably be with you at some point, but we don't know when; gee, I hope it's soon).

And this is really the key to when the subjunctive is used. It's mainly used in **situations where the actuality of the statement is unfulfilled** for whatever reason.

And now we can see why sometimes you say "If I was", and sometimes "If I were". Compare:

 >  Was I really at the steakhouse for dinner? **If I was**, I must have had fries on the side.

 >  **If I were** at the steakhouse right now, I'd be having fries on the side.

The first one is a simple yes-no situation: you lack the relevant knowledge, but there's no real ambiguity. In the second one, though, you're not just making a simple "if" statement: you're *also implying that you're not at the steakhouse*! And that makes it an "unfulfilled" condition.

There are other grammatical structures where you *can* use the subjunctive, but most people just don't bother. You can quite safely use the indicative ("if I was") instead, and I *guarantee* no one will object. The subjunctive is for people who feel like knowing a bit more about the historical intricacies of how words have been used; if you think you'd like to know when to use "thou" and when to use "thee" instead, you might like the subjunctive too. If not, it's probably not worth your time.

One exception: there is *one* construction in current English that I can think of that more or less *requires* the subjunctive, and that's anything that comes after "lest". Here are some examples -- see how odd you think the "wrong" version sounds:

 >  Subjunctive: He is afraid lest he fail the exam.  
 >  Indicative: He is afraid lest he fails the exam. (Eww!)

 >  Subjunctive: I bought baby food lest the baby go hungry.  
 >  Indicative: I bought baby food lest the baby goes hungry. (Bizarre!)

I suspect this may be the one remaining construction in English where the subjunctive is actually *required*. But even this is pretty rare (how often do you use "lest"?), so the subjunctive is definitely dying out in English.

Question: Why don't reptiles produce their own heat, physically how do they NOT and is this preferential to being warm blooded?
Answer: There are several advantages, as well as disadvantages, to being cold blooded. By not generating your own body heat, you get to save energy and don't need to eat as much food - which again saves energy because you don't have to hunt. A disadvantage would be that it takes a while to 'warm up' after a cold night. That's why reptiles are usually pretty sluggish early in the morning, and they have to sit in the sun for a while. This makes them more vulnerable to predators. 

It also depends on where the animals live - many cold blooded animals can't survive in cold climates, because they can't get enough warmth from the sun to survive. In the desert, there's a lot of sunshine, so why not use it for body heat, instead of generating your own?

Question: If you eat something that causes stomach cramps quickly, why is their often difficulty at the other end of the alimentary canal so quickly?
Answer: Food passing through your body is less like a car going down a road, and is instead more like a package moving along a conveyer belt. In this analogy peristalsis is the movement of the conveyer belt. When something is irritating to an earlier portion of this belt, the whole thing speeds up. While it still may take a while for the irritating substance to pass through, things already closer to the end of the system will begin to be expelled more rapidly.

Question: Why does Colorado seem to catch fire every summer?
Answer: We have a very arid climate. Although we get more rain than parts of Nevada and Arizona, our state is very dry compared to most others. Most people don't know that about Colorado, I guess. It is a steppe climate, like New Mexico. Trees don't grow naturally in most parts of the state, except along creeks and rivers. We only get about 15 inches of precipitation the whole year in the Denver area. This past April was wetter than most years, but we still only got 1.87 inches--for the whole *month.* A lot of Midwestern cities got three times that amount in a single day in April. We don't get much rain in Colorado, but because we are at all altitude, we still will get a lot of lightning strikes. It is called dry lightning.

We have heavy water restrictions here. Lawns can't survive without watering (which is why many people do xeriscaping instead of lawns here),but people can only water twice a week. You have to request water at restaurants. There are fire bans (even fire pits, for example) as well as fireworks bans. Homes with dry lawns can increase the risk of a fire hazard. People's cigarette butts can start fires. My ngibhro's house burned down two years ago from them tossing a cigarette butt into a bush. Mulch also increases the risk of a house burning down in a wildfire. It's just so dry.

Add to that the pine beetle... This is a very serious problem in our state. The pine beetle is a beetle that kills trees up in the mountains (where trees do grow). They kill the tree and just leave the dead, dry tree behind. If you are ever up in the Colorado mountains, you will see large areas of dead, reddish looking trees standing among areas of live trees. Do an image search for pine beetle damage, and you will see what the mountain forests look like from these beetle kills. Those dead trees are very prone to fire. Dry land, dry trees, lots of scrub brush.... It's a huge fire hazard. Plus, we usually have 0 humidity here, and it gets really hot. We've been near and over 100 degrees a few times this week. Hot + dry
= fire danger

Question: how do websites know when you're on mobile?
Answer: Every device or browser you install has assigned to it what's called a "User Agent", which it announces to the web server, along with display dimensions, etc... (all this happens in microsecond).

Websites assume (typically) that anything under a certain dimension is mobile, which is why even on some smaller displays that aren't mobile (like an 8" display) you get the mobile layout of the web page.

Question: Tim Ferriss' 'The 4-Hour Workweek'
Answer: Most people fuck off a lot which causes them to be really inefficient. We are too easily distracted by email, phone calls and the like during the course of a day and end up only getting about 45 real minutes of working every day. Tim advocates only returning email and phone calls during a set time and letting them go to the box until then. By eliminating the distractions you can get a full days work done in a fraction of the time. 

That's overly simplified, but it carries the POINT. 
DISCLAIMER - I have not read the book, only had a friend explain it to me.

Question: Why are hockey players going to strike against the NHL?
Answer: The players are not going on strike.  The owners (the employers of the players) are locking the players out, because they want the players to accept lower salary growth in future seasons.

Question: Why can some people raise their right eyebrow independently of their left, but can't do it the other way around?
Answer: I can do both, and each one independently, should I call Prof. Xavier?

Question: why do jehovah's witnesses refuse medicine/medical treatment?
Answer: It's not modern medicine in general, it's specifically blood transfusions; they refuse blood transfusions, which precludes a ton of other treatments and surgeries where a blood transfusion may be necessary.

Question: Pasteurization
Answer: It's a process of rapidly heating and then cooling a food (such as milk) to kill any germs in it, making it safer to consume.  It's similar to canning, but the point of pasteurization is to cook the food as little as possible.

Question: Jury decisions
Answer: > When a jury makes a seemingly stupid or erroneous decision and this seems obvious to judges/lawyers... Can it get overturned?

Yes.  For civil cases, there is something called a judgment as a matter of law or judgment not withstanding verdict.  This basically says that the judge can reverse the verdict if no reasonable jury would have any evidentiary basis for their verdict.

 > For example is a grand jury's verdict a final decision?

Just to clarify, grand jury is only used in criminal cases to indict someone for a crime.  A regular jury is used to convict them.  For criminal cases, generally you can only appeal a guilty verdict, not an acquittal.

If you are worried about the usefulness of evidence, there are other motions you could bring before the court to exclude things that are confusing, unreliable, prejudicial, etc.

Question: What is holocytochrome C?
Answer: A protein in general can have cofactors, that are not aminoacids, in their structure. For example the hemoglobine has the heme group that interacts with the oxygen. The protein without the cofactors, just the aminoacid chain, is called holiprotein  In your case the holocytochrome c is the Cytocrome C withoit the heme groups or the copper atoms, just the aminoacids.

Question: If they really are the same thing, how can generic pharmaceuticals cost so much less than their name brand counterparts?
Answer: Name brand company will spend millions developing, testing, and approving a drug. Once they spend all of that time and money inventing the drug they start mass producing it. Actually making the drug is cheap, usually just a few cents to a couple bucks per pill. So the company has to charge enough to cover the cost to make the pill, plus the millions it spent inventing the pill. So they charge $2 for cost, plus $1000 to cover R & D, plus $20 for profit. Pill cost totals $1022 for $20 profit.

Generic just waits for the name brand to invent the pill, then copies how to make it. Since it only takes a couple bucks to make the pill. They charge $2 cost, $20 for profit. Pill costs total $22 for 20$ profit.

This is why the government doesn't allow generics for the first few years, to let the original company that put in the money charge more so they can make their money back. Then a few years go by and they let generics copy the recipe and the cost goes down.

Question: What causes the phenomenon of wind?
Answer: Sorry for whoever thought they were cool for down voting your simple, straightforward, shameless question.

Anyway, as you may know, warm air rises because it is less dense. So when a pocket of air gets heated up, it rises higher up in the sky. 

But as you also may know, nature doesn't like a vacuum (empty space), so something needs to fill in the empty space that the warm air left. What can fill it? A rush of cooler, denser air. That rush to fill in the gap is wind.

----------------------------------------

EDIT: Wow, this blew up.

GET IT?!

Sorry.

-------------------------------------------

EDIT 2: Thanks for the gold!

Question: Commission on Net vs Gross. Whats the difference?
Answer: I don't know how this would apply to media, but generally these are the definitions:

Gross:  the total amount of a transaction.  You sell a $30,000 car, you get commission on $30,000.

Net:  the total amount of a transaction, *reduced by expenses*.  You sell a $30,000 car, you get commission on $8,000, which is $30k - $22k (what the dealership paid for the car.)

Question: The difference between a URL, URN, and URI
Answer: The simplest explanation starts by categorizing: The first thing you should know is that an URL or a URN are **both** URIs.

An [**URI** (Uniform Resource Identifier)](_URL_4_), is a way to identify some type of resource on the Internet, they are handled by browsers and other network capable applications.

So the two types are the [**URL** (Uniform Resource Locator)](_URL_2_) which is the one you come across everywhere on the Internet.
It's divided into:

    scheme://domain:port/path?query_string#fragment_id

You can see these parts explanation on the wikipedia link above. But you should recognize the format already...

And the [**URN** (Uniform Resource Name)](_URL_3_) which is a way to link to a particular item in a category. The examples seen on wikipedia you might recognize are the [ISBN](_URL_0_) (books) and [ISAN](_URL_1_) (audiovisuals).

I actually haven't seen these being used, which is a damn shame because they intended to be location independent. But what we usually see are the same ISBNs or ISANs identifier keys used as parts of the query string in URLs to some online retailer...

Hope that's clear enough kid :)

Question: How can a foreign diplomat lose there diplomatic immunity?
Answer: Diplomatic Immunity exists solely as an agreement between two nations to provide diplomatic immunity. 

If the two nations no longer agree to provide immunity to their counterparts consular officials then it no longer exists. It is never done lightly though because it's considered vital for functioning diplomatic relations for diplomats to be able to travel freely in each others countries without fear of arrest or detainment. 

For the sake of clarity though - what happened in Rotterdam is not quite at the state where diplomatic relations are being completely terminated. It wasn't a "diplomat", it was a minister. And they weren't arrested, just refused entry.

But it is escalating and may get worse. If it does happen though it's considered good form (almost vital) by the entire international community to allow all diplomats (and their attached staff) to return safely to their home country unhindered if diplomatic relations are suspended.

Question: Why is sugar bad in soda/energy drinks but not juice?
Answer: Nothing. Sugar in juice is just as unhealthy as sugar in soda. 

People just don't *think* that there's that much sugar in juice.

Question: Why are we in a male dominate world?
Answer: Biology. Men are hard wired to seek dominance.

[In men, high levels of endogenous testosterone (T) seem to encourage behavior intended to dominate--to enhance one's status over--other people. Sometimes dominant behavior is aggressive, its apparent intent being to inflict harm on another person, but often dominance is expressed nonaggressively.](_URL_0_)

Question: Conditional probability (searched already. Other explanations posted are way too complex)
Answer: What's the probability of flipping two coins and they both turn up heads? That's pretty easy to calculate, it's 25%.

But what if you flipped one already, and it was heads? Now the probability of both being heads is 50%, it's just down to the second coin flip.

That's the idea behind conditional probability, you have additional information that affects your guess of the likelihood of something happening.

Your example doesn't really seem to be conditional probability related, but you need to be clear in what you're trying to calculate the probability of - is it the likelihood of someone with a peanut allergy saying they want peanut butter banned, or that banning peanut butter affects the probability of allergy attacks?

If you're going with the second one, you could compare the probability of an allergy attack within a certain time frame conditional on peanut butter being banned or not (it seems to be lower if it is banned).

Question: The physical significance of some math terms
Answer: Eigenvectors, eigenvalues, and the determinant of a matrix don't necessarily have 'physical' meanings.

If you think of a matrix as a linear transformation (something that stretches or squeezes space) then the eigenvectors are the directions in which space is stretched or squeezed. 
The eigenvalues (which pair off with eigenvectors) are how much stretching or squeezing happens.
The determinant is how much that stretching and squeezing will change a volume.

The dot product (roughly) indicates how 'in the same direction' two vectors are.  The most familiar example is that the work done by a force is the dot product of the force and the displacement.

The cross product only exists in 3 dimensions, indicates 'how perpendicular' two vectors are, and gives a vector that's perpendicular to both.  The simplest application is probably that torque is the cross product of the lever arm and the applied force. 

Gradient is (roughly speaking) a multi-dimensional version of slope.

I don't know how to explain curl better than this: _URL_0_)

Question: how do companies like Gamestop etc. decide how much a used game is worth?
Answer: supply and demand.. the basic principles are maintained.. they probably have a tracking system for what they know they can sell it for and then have a formula that dictates what percentage they need to make.. things are worth what people will pay for them.

Question: how does WiFi/radio/phone signal make its way through solid brick walls?
Answer: Same way visible light goes through glass. Glass is a solid. Different objects absorb, reflect and transmit different wavelengths of electromagnetic radiation (emr). So glass is transparent to visible EMR and brick is transparent to radio waves (im pretty sure wifi uses radio waves)

Question: Why does everyone believe everything Snowden leaks as truth?
Answer: When Snowden started releasing information,  the US government got very upset. You know how sometimes you get upset,  even though you don't mean to? Usually it's because there is some truth there. If somebody said something ridiculous,  like your brother is a raptor,  you wouldn't be mad because you can prove it's not true. Now if they said sometimes you eat boogers when you think nobody is watching, you might be upset and tell them to shut up,  because you do eat boogers sometimes and if you do it again I'm sending you to bed.

Question: Why do we frequently add the sound "ee" to the end of names, particularly children's names?
Answer: Many languages have a "diminutive" form, usually a suffix, for names and objects.  In English, it happens to be -y (or rarely -ie, same sound); in German it's -lein and -chen; and so forth.

In other words, "Why?"  "Because."  It's a fairly common construct.

----

Now, if your question was actually "Why is the standard diminutive suffix in English -y", IDK.

Question: what is the logic behind letting someone go if you love them ?
Answer: The issue is that if you love someone, and genuinely love them, you want the best for them. Even if the best for them isn't you. You care about them enough that you just want them to be happy, and though  it'd make you happy to have them with you, you know that you aren't the one who can give them the happiness and joy they deserve.

True love is putting the needs of someone else above your own. If you really love someone, then you'll make the decision that is best for them, even if it makes things hard for you.

Don't mistake love with infatuation.

Question: What causes dandruff and how can it be removed permanently?
Answer: >  Dandruff is thought to be due to a combination of an over production of skin oil and irritation from a yeast called malassezia.

 >   Stress, fatigue, weather extremes, oily skin, infrequent shampoos or skin cleaning, use of lotions that contain alcohol, skin disorders (such as acne), or obesity may increase the risk.

 >  You can treat flaking and dryness with over-the-counter dandruff or medicated shampoos. Shampoo the hair vigorously and frequently (preferably daily). Loosen scales with the fingers, scrub for at least 5 minutes, and rinse thoroughly.

 >  The severity of dandruff can be lessened by controlling the risk factors and by paying careful attention to skin care.

_URL_0_

Question: Why sprinter runners have their names, numbers on A4 paper, and not a branded shirts like football players?
Answer: starting number is given on the place. it would be wasteful to buy uniform for every event.

in football and almost every (or probably in every) other sport involving numbers it's just indicator of number in team.

Question: ; Do vaccines cause autism? If so why? If not, where did this idea come from?
Answer: No, they do not. A surgeon named Andrew Wakefield wanted to make a name for himself, so he published a "study" that linked vaccines to autism. It caught on largely after a celebrity (Jenny McCarthy) became very vocal against vaccinations. Even though Wakefield was later revealed to have completely fabricated his results, the mystery surrounding the causes of autism and people's stubbornness keeps this idea around.

Question: Liquor before beer, you're in the clear.
Answer: Basically bullshit that sounds funny when you are half drunk.

Question: Why does hitting a dim fluorescent lightbulb help make it bright?
Answer: I'm not sure of this mechanism.  My guess is that the contact between the bulb terminals and the fixture is not very good.  If the connection isn't snug, or if the contacts have built up a little oxidation, then there will be a high resistance connection.  Flicking the bulb could break through this oxidation (which is usually thin and poor quality) and get you a better connection. 
 
The easy way to test my hypothesis would be to try twisting/wiggling the light instead of flicking it with your finger.

Question: Why are certain American movies released in some other countries before they're released in the USA?
Answer: There's a whole ton of math that goes into when a movie gets released, based on competition, based on local culture, based on how the reviews might go, based on various deals with the theaters, based on... well, you get the idea.

Suffice to say you and I will probably never know the reasons a specific movie was released sooner or later in other countries, but the distributor has a lot of experience on how to maximize their profits and for one reason or another decided releasing that particular movie earlier overseas is more profitable than any other release schedule.

Question: What did the 1% protesting actually accomplished if anything?
Answer: To deal with a problem, you first have to be aware that there is one, so accomplishing awareness is something.

Question: How does "muscle memory" actually work?
Answer: Your nervous system is all about connections. The more you use a connection, the stronger it gets. Muscle memory is imprinting movement patterns deeply on the neurons needed to control those movements so they can be repeated precisely.

Question: How Megaupload can be held responsible for the files uploaded to it.
Answer: I believe it was because they made no attempt to moderate their servers for pirated content.  They even admitted making money off of pirated content.

Question: Help with Coefficients and Matrices
Answer: y/2 is (1/2) * y. The coefficient is 1/2

And no, higher degrees are nonlinear and matrices are strictly linear, and higher-degree equations have multiple solutions: x^2 = 4 is an easy example.

Question: Why is Hydrogen fuel not being more readily pursued as an alternative fuel source?
Answer: Mostly because it is very costly to extract. Any energy used in the production of hydrogen would probably end up coming from fossil fuels anyway, making the energy savings moot.

There is also concern over the safety of hydrogen. It is very flammable and prone to leaking. Hydrogen fuel cells have been known to explode in car crashes.

Question: Why wouldn't Americans want improved relations with Russia? Why have they been demonized by our media and politicians?
Answer: America would love improved relations with Russia. A number of things stand in the way of that, but mostly the tendency of Russia to invade its neighbors and take them over by force. Europe is separated into two groups: Those in NATO and those who should be worried about Russian invasion.

Putin sees NATO as Russia's largest obstacle to expanded power and influence, which means that the US as the military backbone of NATO is unlikely to become a close ally.

Question: I thought Jordan had a constitutional monarchy, yet it appears that democratic movements have flaired up in the region. ELI5
Answer: Edit: I know this isn't a ELI5 but it isn't a ELI5 question :p If you want to talk more, reply and i'll be glad to respond :-)

I am Jordanian and have been living here for 21 years. All the riots you are seeing now happening all across the kingdom is mainly because of the government's recent decision to lift the aid they provide for oil, diesel, gasoline...etc. This was done in order to help the country pay for its increasing debt, if this action was not taken, the value of the JD (Jordanian Dinar) will collapse and the whole country will be in shambles. 

Also, these "economic and political reforms" that the king implemented are mostly just a way to shut the crowds up. If you get into the nitty gritty of it, nothing has changed. In fact, economically, things have gotten much worse. 

Just like at the beginning of the Arab Spring when there were protests asking for reforms and the overthrow of the monarchy, these protests were not started by the Muslim Brotherhood. They were started by regular low income folk (who make up about 70% of the population) who  now can't find a way to bring food to the table. But today, the Muslim Brotherhood slowly started to seep into the protests and ask for the overthrow of the monarchy. I live fairly close to one of the "hotspots" for the protests in the capital and pass by there almost daily. When I went to see the protests today, there was a significant portion of the crowd that was from the Muslim Brotherhood and other tribal members that are well known to be against the monarchy. I can only imagine that number will increase. 

Overall however, there is a general disdain for the people who are calling for the overthrow and in my opinion, the monarchy will continue to exist.

Question: Why do some chef's knives cost so much? Why is Japanese steel considered so much better? Is it really impossible to "perfect" a knife?
Answer: Japanese steel isn't the best. They still make good stuff, but there is not single place that makes the best steel. With the advent of modern metallurgy and the sharing of knowledge, everyone is on an even playing field and the Japanese never were the best in terms of steel quality. The Indians and middle east has that one in regards to steel of antiquity. As for cost, materials and craftsmanship. Its really that simple. In regards to the perfect knife, define what perfect is. There is no single objective best knife because the capabilities will vary form taks to task. Even within the realm of cooking, an 8" Santoku will be great at general food processing, but fall behind something like a paring knife for cutting certain things, or not do as well as a filet knife for fileting fish. And similarly, those two knives wont do as well as the santoku for other things. To summarize, the Japanese make excellent knives with good steel, but aren't necessarily the best because that doesn't exist. Some knives cost what they do because of the materials and craftsmanship that goes into each, just like everything else.   The perfect knife does not exist due to the huge number of variables that go into making each one. What is perfect for one person can be totally off for another.

Question: Why do abnormal events that occur while dreaming seem perfectly normal in our dreams?
Answer: One dream theory states that our upper brains (cerebrum) receive random signals from the lower brain (brain stem, cerebellum etc.) and the upper brain tries to make sense of them. It takes the data, interprets it and then experiences what that interpretation states should be experienced. That isn't to say that you can't feel out of place in a dream. I sure have. Plenty of my dreams have freaked me out even whilst in the dream.

Question: How does cooking something cause it to gain more carbohydrates?
Answer: Fiber in foods represents inaccessible carbohydrates because your body can't break fiber down. However, when you cook fiber it can sometimes break down in the cooking process into something your body actually can use, and therefore increase the carbohydrates your body takes from the food.

Question: Why do so many people not vote in the US?
Answer: I am educated (post grad degree).  I don't vote because my vote only matters if the election is decided by one vote.  This basically never happens, even in local elections.  
 
I also try as much as possible not to pay attention to current affairs and the news.  They can use up a lot of your mental resources and time, and there is basically no advantage to being informed about them unless you literally work in politics.  I suppose they give you something to talk about with others, but politics is usually considered impolite conversation anyways.

Question: Why is storage space for genomic data a big concern when all 3 billion base pairs from a human could be stored using only ~700 megabytes, given a 2-bit representation for each base pair?
Answer: Can you please point me to anything that says this is in any way a concern?

Question: Why do we get hiccups? How to make it go?
Answer: One method i learned from Reddit.
just as you get your 1st hiccup, take a long deep breath and hold it as long you can.. hiccups gone!
worked for me.

Question: Does religious tithing create any legal obligation for the church to the contributor?
Answer: Not unless they are made legally explicit by some contract.

Legally speaking, a tithe is a voluntary charitable contribution to a non-profit organization.  Many churches claim they are required by the bible, and some even track them and deny you church services if you don't pay.  But like any other charitable contributions, tithing does not grant legal rights.

Question: What's it like to live in a tornado zone? People talk about warnings  &  safe areas at work - but I live in UK and have no frame of reference to imagine this.
Answer: There's not too much too it. You just drill for it like a fire drill. If one is coming try to get to a secure area that wouldn't be affected by super strong winds. That's why basements and bathrooms are typical places you're supposed to go. 

In some towns in the mid-west where tornadoes are more frequent there might a municipal siren system and nowadays with smarthphones you can get emergency messages sent to you if you're in a particular location where something is happening. 

But the odds of actually being caught in a tornado are low. It's much more about being in the wrong place at the wrong time rather than some sort of inevitability. The accompanying storms that create tornados can still be dangerous though.

Question: What are the controls on the Earth's crust floating?
Answer: It's mainly (2). 

Viscosity certainly isn't the preventative factor, because that's essentially how plate tectonics works (where cool, dense oceanic crust is subducted beneath lighter continental or oceanic crust). The entire earth, apart from the outer core, is solid, but the outer mantle has a low enough viscosity to allow flow to occur over geological timespans. 

There is a compositional difference between the upper mantle and crust. It's not *huge* and there is debate as to where this boundary actually is depending on whether you're a seismologist, geologist, geochemist or physicist, but the density without a doubt increases as you get deeper so apart from at plate boundaries, the [density structure is stable](_URL_0_).

As for why, it's because of the chemical differentiation that occurs when you melt the mantle. As you may be aware, the melting behaviour of systems with more than one component (e.g. mantle) is complex. The solid does not all melt at once. Instead, you form a liquid which often has a different composition from the melting stock. 

In the case of the mantle, this liquid is more silica-rich than bulk mantle so as long as you only melt small fractions of the upper mantle ( > 30% melt only occurs very rarely), when that liquid crystalises, you form a rock with more silica-rich phases (e.g. more plagioclase, less olivine), which also happen to be less dense. This is the reason why oceanic crust, the densest part of the crust, is less dense than the upper mantle.

Question: How are the sellers on AliExpress able afford charging free shipping (to most places) on most items, without having a minimum order requirement?
Answer: _URL_0_

TL;DR - China provides artificially cheap shipping costs for businesses  &  they have agreements with the US Postal Service that require them to deliver the shit without charging extra money.

...and you're bypassing all taxes  &  duties on your purchases.

Question: How can the power company remotely shut off power to a single house?
Answer: I work for an electric company and currently we are installing Smart Meters on everybodys house. These meters will be somehow read 48 times a day (every half hour) and people who have the smart meters will be able to check their usage when ever they want through a website given by their power supplier, and yes they will be able to turn off the power remotely if the customer hast paid their bill. also they will be able to tell when you loose power for faster recovery time and it will be on a grid system so they know exactly where the problem is. they will also be able to tell when people are trying to tamper with their meter. Meter readers are slowly being not needed and are being absorbed into the company via promotions, but even when every houe system wide has a Smart Meter there will still be a need for meter readers because some state laws still require meters to be read by a person every so often

EDIT: added more about meter readers

Question: How does shorting a stock work in it's entirety?
Answer: Normally you buy a stock at a low price, and hope you can sell it later for a higher price.

Selling short is basically the opposite.  You "borrow" the stock from the brokerage, sell it and get the money.  It's important to note they are not lending you money - they are lending you XX of shares in the stock, which you immediately sold for money.

Now, you owe them XX shares of the company's stock.  If the price drops later, you can purchase the shares at a lower back and pay back the brokerage - making money in the process.

It works like this:

Company XYZ's current stock price is $10 per share.  You want to sell short.  You borrow 5 shares of Company XYZ from the brokerage, sell them, and have $50.

Three months from now, Company XYZ's stock has dropped to $7 per share.  You purchase 5 shares for $35 and give these shares back to the brokerage, to cover your short.  You made $15.

Question: What makes a superpower a superpower?
Answer: From [Wikipedia](_URL_0_) - Alice Lyman Miller defines a superpower as "a country that has the capacity to project dominating power and influence anywhere in the world, and sometimes, in more than one region of the globe at a time, and so may plausibly attain the status of global hegemony."

Of the original 3 superpowers (Britain, Soviet Union, and United States) only the US has the kind of political, military, and economic influence on a global scale anymore.  However, Russia is slowly returning to that state, as it shows capability to invade/occupy surrounding nations, and China is also rapidly rising in power economically and as they flex political/military power in surrounding nations.

Question: Why Muhammad is such a popular Muslim name, Even though Its the name of their Prophet (I'm 5 years old)
Answer: Muslims have great admiration for all the prophets, so they name their children after them

Muhammad is the most common, but there are a lot more

Ibrahim (Abraham) is very common
Musa (Moses) is also common
Isa (Jesus) less common, no particular reason

And girls are also given names of honorable woman

Maryam (Mary) is very common
Aisha and Khadija are also common

Question: What is the difference between an Internet Usage Policy and an Online Safety Policy?
Answer: Internet Usage Policy - here are the things you can use the internet for at work...wikipedia good, porn bad

Online Safety Policy - here is some common mistakes you can make that will get you or the company in trouble, like malware, phishing, and Nigerian princes

If you were caught playing fantasy football at work, that could be a violation of the IUP.

If a work related web search led you to a fake popup and you wound up installing malware, that would be a violation of the OSP.

Question: How do hot air balloons control which way they go, why are they not just swept away by the wind?
Answer: Wind blows in different directions at different heights. So they raise or lower the altitude of the balloon to find a current that is going the way they want to head.

Question: Amanda Knox has been found guilty of murder (again). Should I believe it?
Answer: I recommend this article from Rolling Stone _URL_0_ which outlines the absurdity of the allegations against her very well.

Question: How does high and low tide work. I know it has to do with 'gravity' and the moon, but how does the moon influence the tide?
Answer: A lot of explanations say that it is because it is because the moon is "pulling" on the water however this is only partially true as this does not completely explain why there is a high tide on the opposite side of the planet.   You must not think of it as the moon pulling the water but instead the water being attracted from all points including the poles that the cumulative vector of the water closest to the poles squeezing and pushing the water at the equators outwards.  Imagine taking a spherical balloon and placing your hands on top and bottom and squeezing the balloon, as you apply this pressure the balloon becomes more oblong, but in the case of the moon it becomes this shape in the direction of the moon.   The reason for the squeezing is because the summation of all the waters vectors over a large area, the tidal effects is very pronounced.   So technically there could be this tide in a lake but because a lake is so much smaller than all the oceans combined, the effect is immeasurable.

Question: The Fiscal Cliff.
Answer: Aljazeera breaks this down in a really easy-to-understand sort of way. Hopefully this helps: _URL_0_

Question: What are ocean currents? How do they work?
Answer: I am not an oceanologist, but I'll do by best.

The main factors as far as I know are temperature (like in air currents) and salinity.

Water in the northern areas cools and becomes more dense, causing it to sink. This sinking action causes warm water from the equator to displace it. The cold water is slowly pushed back to the ewuator, where it warms and rises again.

Water also loses the ability to hold salt as it cools - and water with salt in it is more dense. How this effects the cycle, I'm not sure, but it is a factor.

The point is there are different mechanisms that cause the density of water to change subtley, and even a subtle change has a profound effect when you're dealing with millions of tons of water.

Question: How does sleepwalking work?
Answer: When you fall asleep, your brain paralyses your body so you can't move or hurt yourself by acting out your dreams. Sometimes, that paralysis fails to occur, and you end up acting out a dream, or something you commonly do when awake. If you are a sleepwalker, It's important to prep your house so you won't hurt yourself walking around.

Question: How does a coup work?
Answer: It's just a revolution. The only difference is that a coup is often run by someone who's already in power, like a military leader leading a coup against the President.

Question: Why do Kim Jong Uns top military leaders always follow him around and take notes?
Answer: Because the Kim (Kim IL sung, kim jong il, kim jong un) dynasty are considered to be God-like and have the infinite wisdom. They take notes because anything Kim Jong un says is the truth and he is giving them direction and guidance.

Question: Why does abstract math have so much history and application to computing, but computers are so new?
Answer: This is the whole point of basic research. Mathematicians concern themselves with studying the properties of interesting internally consistent systems. 

But somehow, these systems tend to also be valuable for modelling things from the real world. The reason this happens is not very well understood as far as I know. It just seems that there is a connection between our intuitive conception of beauty and applicability. 

For a five-year old: Imagine an artist that has a specific system, a school of thought about what art is. He is always producing sculptures according to this system and putting them on display for all to see. People look at these sculptures and once in a while realise that one of them can be used in their work. For example, a hunter looks at one of these sculptures and realises it's the perfect design for a bow. 

Now, is this a testament to some higher truth the artist has discovered that makes things produced by his system to be valuable? Or is it a matter of volume, that he's just producing so much stuff in a consistent manner that some of them happen to be recognised as useful? We don't really know.

*Edit:* A third interpretation is that no one really understands mathematics except mathematicians. To extend the above story, imagine that no one in the world can sculpt to save their lives except for the artist. Then, even though they can sort of imagine what kind of tools they need, they can't design or build them themselves. So, their best bet is to go through the artist's exhibition and find the sculpture that best matches their needs.

Question: How come black coffee has a laxative effect while most other stimulants make people constipated?
Answer: Which other stimulants cause constipation? Are you talking about rebound constipation?

Question: How do limousine services bypass the open container laws?
Answer: Sometimes there's an exception in the laws regarding commercial type transports. [California example:](_URL_0_):

No drinking:
 > 23221 

 > (a) No driver shall drink any alcoholic beverage while in a
motor vehicle upon a highway.
   (b) No passenger shall drink any alcoholic beverage while in a
motor vehicle upon a highway.

No open containers:

 > 23223  

 >  (a) No driver shall have in his or her possession, while in
a motor vehicle upon a highway or on lands, as described in
subdivision (b) of Section 23220, any bottle, can, or other
receptacle, containing any alcoholic beverage that has been opened,
or a seal broken, or the contents of which have been partially
removed.
'

Except when:

 > 23229   

 > (a) Except as provided in Section 23229.1, Sections 23221
and 23223 do not apply to passengers in any bus, taxicab, or
limousine for hire licensed to transport passengers pursuant to the
Public Utilities Code or proper local authority, or the living
quarters of a housecar or camper.

This of course doesn't mean you're entitled to drink in a commercial vehicle, just that it's allowed by law under certain circumstances.

Question: Is there a pleasure-related reason to eat ass?
Answer: Sometimes it can be as much for the giver as the receiver. There's something primal, taboo and sweaty about burying your face and tongue into someone's anus that can't be topped. This is definitely one of those "your mileage may vary" kind of topics.

Question: Can someone explain SQL to me?
Answer: Think of SQL as a way to manage a huge set of index cards with a bunch of information on them (this is your database). Maintaining a huge pile of index cards is a pain in the butt, so SQL gives you an English-like language you can use to control an index-card-maintaing robot. The key concepts are:

* A single colour of index cards [table]
* Each colour has a defined set of things you're going to note on the cards - so to keep track of football stats, you might say  'on each pink card, I'll write the "name", "height", "weight", "age" and "team" of a player; on each yellow card, I'll write the "venue", "home team", "away team", and "score" of a single football game' [these pieces of information are the columns; the description of each is the schema].
* Each individual card is a [row]
* SQL gives you some very basic operations which can be composed to do complex things to your information
* SELECT queries the data ("hey robot, look through all the pink cards, find each player whose first name is Henry" might look something like "SELECT * FROM players WHERE firstname = 'Henry'")
* UPDATE changes each row in a table ("Hey robot, I'm ready for the 2012 season; go through each pink card and mark each person as one year older" might be "UPDATE players SET age = age + 1")
* INSERT fills out a new index card ("Hey robot, the Myhometown Boll Weevils have a new Center Quarterforwardstop, better fill out a new pink card" might become "INSERT INTO players (firstname, lastname, height ...etc) VALUES ('Abdullah', 'McTavish', '230cm' ...etc)"
* DELETE throws away an index card ("Hey robot, Abdullah McTavish quit after a cockfighting scandal, don't need that card any more' becomes "DELETE FROM players WHERE firstname = 'Abdullah' AND lastname = 'McTavish') 
* Where SQL gets useful is that you can do much more complex manipulations. We already saw WHERE above (where you're getting your robot to give you a list only of players meeting certain criteria).
* JOIN is like telling the robot 'for every card you bring back, also bring back a photocopy of the relevant card of another colour'. So 'bring me all the players whose height is greater than 200cm; attached to each one, bring me a copy of the green index card representing their team'. This way from looking at each result, you can find out the team's sponsor (say) without needing to go and do a separate lookup. If one team has 10 players over 200cm, you'll get a copy of that team's card attached to each player card.
* GROUP BY is a way of saying 'once you've collected the cards, summarize the information in some way' - group some columns together, and either throw away the other columns, add them up, average them. For example you might JOIN 'players' to 'teams' (per the above) but then want to summarize per team.

So a complex example might be: 'hey robot, get me all players over 210cm, attaching a copy of the team card to each. Then go through, group all the teams together, and just bring me the sponsor of each team, along with the tallest height and average age for each over-210cm player'

So the robot brings back a bunch of cards:

* John Smith, 214cm, 30 years old, MyHomeTown Bollweevils (with a copy of the Bollwevils card attached, listing the sponsor 'AwesomeCo')
* Jack Johnson, 220cm, 20 years old, MyHomeTown Bollweevils (with ANOTHER copy of the Bollweevils card)
* Jean-Francois Miyazaki, 211cm, 21 years old, Someothertown Honey Badgers (with a copy of the Honey Badgers' team card, showing their sponsor as "Crappystuff Inc")

So your robot summarizes that for you:

    Sponsor: AwesomeCo, Tallest: 220cm, Average age: 25
    Sponsor: Crappystuff inc, Tallest: 211cm, Oldest: 21

The SQL for that might look like:

    SELECT teams.sponsorName, MAX(players.height), AVG(players.age)
    FROM players INNER JOIN teams ON (players.teamName = teams.teamName)
    WHERE players.height  >  210
    GROUP BY teams.sponsorName

there are other variants but that's a decent start.

Question: Why are most sweat glands in the armpits ?
Answer: They are not. You have sweat glands all over your body and while there may be a slightly higher concentration of them in your armpits than the average density on say your stomach it is not anywhere close to having most of the sweat glands that your body has.

Question: Why is there a need of an additional checkin process in flight travel. Why cant we just use the tickets to board the plane?
Answer: Having passengers check in before boarding allows the airline to confirm which passengers have actually shown up for the flight. This can be important if a flight is overbooked (too many passengers), or if a flight has open seats that could be filled by standby passengers.

If they waited until boarding to check all of that, that would be quite a time crunch at the last minute.

Question: the differences between Whiskey, Bourbon, Scotch, and single malt / multiple malt (?)
Answer: Whiskey is a general term for aged liquor made with grains (depending on where the term is used it can be spelled as whisky) and aged in oak barrels or casks.  Bourbon is a legal term for whiskeys made in the US from a majority corn grain mix and there are other requirements.  Scotch is whisky made in Scotland (and other requirements, as well).  One key part of Scottish style whisky is they roast the grain malt over peat moss which adds a very distinct flavor to the final product.  

Single malt is a term primarily associated with Scotch that means the product was made from a single distillery and with malted barley as the grain (blended is the opposite, it means that the final product is made from a blend of different distilleries products).

Question: How come digital videos take up less memory than the sum of their individual frames.
Answer: Videos aren't stored as a series of images.  It's closer to being stored as a series of **changes** in frames.  Since most pixels on most frames are the same as the previous one, this saves an enormous amount of space.  It doesn't work exactly like that, but that's an easy way to imagine how it could be much smaller.

Question: Why does travelling make you feel so tired when you've just sat there for hours doing nothing?
Answer: Former flight medic here. There is lots of data on the "stressors of flight" (many of these stressors are also present in automobiles). As the vehicle moves, the sway and direction change cause you  to have to keep yourself upright. These micro movements cause your muscles to be continuously working (even if you don't realize it). The US Air Force has done studies report conistent exposure to aircraft vibrations can lead to fatuige and increased chance of health problems.

Question: Implementation of Anarcho-Communism/Libertarian Communism
Answer: I don't have time to type out a whole history of attempts at implementing libertarian communism so I'll just point you to [*The Anarchist Collectives: Workers' Self-Management in Spain 1936-39* by Sam Dolgoff.](_URL_0_) There were similar attempts elsewhere but the effort in Spain is the one with the best documentation in English. 

The long and short of it is that the workers called a general strike and began raising militias to fight the fascists, who had declared open rebellion on the government. They then set about bringing industry and land under collective ownership while the government of the Second Republic waned in actual power to the point of irrelevancy. The libertarian communism that was achieved evidently functioned pretty well. It only failed because they were unable to fend off the much better equipped fascists, who had international support from Hitler, Mussolini, and foreign capitalists like Henry Ford. Also because Stalinists inevitably stab anarchists and Trots in the back. Definitely read Orwell's *Homage to Catalonia* to get a better view of the politics and Antony Beevor's *Battle for Spain* to get a detailed history of the war.

As for implementing libertarian communism in the US today, it's not even really worth answering. I did the math once. We'd need an anarchist labor union in the US to have nearly 20 million members to have the same proportion of the population that the anarchist union in Spain had at the time of the revolution. The closest we have right now is the IWW, which has *maybe* 2,000 members.

Question: - how do you know when it is a good time to buy a home...how do you know when it is a buyers market?
Answer: Generally low interest rates are a good time to buy as well as more sellers than buyers. For you personally it doesn't matter what the U.S. housing market looks like, it matters what the specific house/area looks like. 

For you to figure this out I'd recommend a site like Zillow for houses you are looking at. They post previous sale prices and an estimate of the houses worth. In general if its price is in decline it's a buyers market, if the price is inflating it's a sellers market. However buy a house at a specific time is a gamble. If you wait the price may fall even more or the price may rise, it's hard even for trained economists to time it perfectly.

Question: Biologically, why do humans feel sentimental about things, (places, objects) and how has this helped us?
Answer: Being sentimental is just another way of saying we experience feelings or emotions. Emotions are a reaction to our environment and help us to differentiate between positive experiences that we would like to repeat and negative experiences we wish to avoid. It also helps us to know what feels good and bad at an emotional level. That allows us to better communicate in a social setting by avoiding causing bad feelings for others and seeking to enable or be part of the experience of good feelings in others.

Question: What the difference is between having to pay property taxes and having to pay into the healthcare system.
Answer: There are many differences between property taxes and federally mandated health insurance. First, the federal government doesn't collect property taxes, nor does it have the power to do so, as far as I know. Property taxation happens at the local (not at the state or federal) level. One of the biggest misconceptions that many people have is that government is just government, and it doesn't matter at what level that government operates. However, the US system was designed to give most governing power to the individual states, and the federal government was supposed to have more limited power. That changed a lot with the Civil War and then again with the New Deal, but the original structure, with its fundamental limits on federal power, is still there. This is the reason that many people who believe that the federal health insurance mandate is unconstitutional would say that Massachusetts' mandate is constitutional. As another example of the limitation on federal power, the federal government couldn't directly legislate a 55 MPH speed limit nationally, nor a minimum drinking age, nor a seat belt law. Instead, they used inducements: if you, as a state, implement a law requiring seat belts, then we'll give you more highway funds. So, while the states could make those laws, the federal government couldn't do it directly. 

Second, the basic educated argument against the federal mandate is that it is requires individual citizens to purchase something from a private health insurance company. This is the thing that's really new and weird from a constitutional standpoint. Post New Deal, there is probably no constitutional impediment to something like a single payer health plan (no private insurance for most regular care) or even a public option (a government-run insurance plan that competes alongside of private insurance). In those cases, the government is providing the services and paying for it through taxes, without forcing individuals to buy something directly from a private business. The problem with forcing individuals to buy something from a private business is that opens up a lot of powers to the federal government. People like to make fun of the broccoli argument as being silly ("If the insurance mandate is okay because it increases the overall health of the population, then why can't we make a law to force people to buy broccoli, since it would also increase the health of the population?"), but that's the point. The federal government already has a lot of power to regulate private transactions, including telling people that they can't buy certain products, but it isn't yet established that the government has the power to require individuals to make certain transactions to buy specific products. If it gains that power, it can pass laws to mandate nearly anything, and that's something that could give pause to people of any political persuasion. 

Outside of the explanation, I personally think that the federal mandate is unconstitutional. That doesn't mean I like our current health care system. Costs are simply too high to be sustainable. The system is too complex, and there isn't time or incentive for comparison shopping when you're in an emergency situation (and frequently not even non-emergencies). That makes the the market wildly inefficient. My preference is for a single payer plan, basically an expansion of Medicare to cover everyone, that also allows private insurance alongside it.

Question: Why do we make solid and liquid waste? How does our body know which to make of what?
Answer: The solid waste is what didn't get absorbed in your intestines.

The "liquid" waste is all the stuff that was absorbed and needs to be flushed out again or the waste products of using the absorbed stuff. And it's only liquid because water is used as a transport medium.

So imagine you have a bag of apples. And you only take out the things you really need in your body. The water, the sugars and vitamins. To get these out you mash the apples to a pulp and add some chemicals and then squeeze the bag. What comes out is what your body would absorb. What is left behind is what your body will poop out.

Now you use the absorbed things as fuel. So imagine you take the sugars and burn them. After they have burned (reacted) there is slag that is left behind. And to get this slag out of your body again you dissolve it in water. That's what you pee out. (This is of course dumbed down quite a bit.)

Question: The drastic drop in the price of oil.
Answer: * The oil price went over $100 a barrel.
* At that price, expensive-to-extract oil such as fracked/oil shale became profitable to mine for the first time.
* It takes a really long time to set up a new oil well.
* There was an Oil Rush (like a gold rush)
* Where thousands of people/companies wanted to get in on $100 a barrel oil, but weren't accurately judging how much competition they had from other frackers because so many were still in the process of getting their wells up.
* [EDIT I better correct this point so I don't spread misinformation.   Fracking wells can be turned off and on.]
* Tens of thousands of new wells came online, and flooded the market with oversupply.
* The oil price plunged.
* All those fracking wells started making a horrible loss.
* American fracking companies could not shut off their fracking wells without [EDIT...] making an even worse loss.
* The Middle East, with traditional low-cost Sweet Oil wells, have the option to temporarily slow their own production, but chose not to because it is in their long term interest to keep their own market share.
* The existing high-cost/fracking wells which are now unprofitable will be producing more oil for around another year.
* No new oil wells are in the pipeline because of the low price, so in a few years time, oil supply is going to drop drastically.

TL;DR
The oil price at $100 made expensive oil profitable to mine, there was a massive Oil Rush, now the market is so oversupplied the price has plunged, and the oversupply cannot shut down for a long time because of the nature of [Edit the economics of many] fracking wells.

Question: Why do some people fall asleep instantly, while it takes others hours to?
Answer: In order to go into sleep your brain activity has to slow, if you've got too many thoughts going on, keep opening your eyes, moving, etc, you're sending conflicting signals to your brain. Your brain waits for cues to go into "standby" and by doing these things, you're confusing it. Aches can do this too, since they're keeping your nervous system active. So typically, someone who can clear their mind easily, and doesn't have any sore body parts, can go to sleep rather quick simply by laying down and closing their eyes. Someone who has a lot on their mind or has a restless leg, etc, might not be so lucky.

Question: Why does using cellular data have such a big hit on battery life?
Answer: To get more data the radio needs to work harder, which takes more power. The radio is the second largest power consumer in your phone behind the screen, so if you're say streaming netflix you're killing your battery because you're asking the radio to do a ton of work and then using it to watch a movie.

Question: What exactly is the true north?
Answer: True north is based on geometry, and points directly to the geographic/geodetic North Pole (i.e. [the axis that passes through the Earth, around which the Earth rotates](_URL_0_)). The magnetic and geodetic north poles aren't at the same geographic spot (and, as you say, the magnetic north moves around over time), so true north and magnetic north don't end up pointing in the same direction most of the time.

We just use magnetic north because it's much easier to measure and requires significantly fewer and less expensive tools (i.e. a compass, or even just a bit of [magnetized metal, a leaf, and some calm water](_URL_1_) as opposed to access to a GPS system, or a sextant and some astronomical charts).

Question: American Censorship on TV
Answer: The FCC regulates free, public air channels. Cable channels are not part of that since you choose receive those. 

Many cable channels will voluntarily censor swearing, sex, violence, etc because their advertisers may not want to be associated with those things. Premium channels like HBO, Cinemax, Starz, Showtime, EPIX and so on don't rely on advertising so there's no reason to self-censor. They even show straight-up porn on some and can because nobody's forced to watch those if they don't want to. Even the premium channels self-censor to a degree in that they typically show the most "adult" content at night after 9pm or so. There's no regulations forcing them to but it's a business and public relations choice.

Question: Why are entire cornfields left intentionally unharvested?
Answer: First, the corn you are seeing in is not what we humans generally eat.  Humans generally each "sweet corn".  What you are seeing is "field corn" - stuff that animals eat and stuff that is turned into various manufactured products.  Basically you don't want to harvest the corn until it is really, really brown.  The reason is because you want the corn to be really, really dry.  So no, the food is not going to waste.

Question: Why does being angry/annoyed for an extended period make your stomach hurt?
Answer: When you are angry or annoyed you are likely stressed, meaning you are producing the stress hormone (cortisol). Cortisol is released when the sympathetic nervous system (fight or flight) is activated. The system temporarily stops digestion and absorption. Frequent and excessive release of cortisol can cause inflammation (instead of doing what it's supposed to do, which would be regulating it). Combined, this causes stomach pain. On a side note, magnesium can inhibit excess cortisol production, so the magnesium pills you can find at a local health food store, for example, can help you if you suffer from anxiety or are constantly stressed. Excessive cortisol production is unhealthy and has cardiovascular, immune, and blood sugar effects.

Question: Do animals experience similar symptoms of periods (cramps, mood swings, sleepiness, overall blah?)
Answer: Sort of, if you've ever seen a pet in heat you can tell that they aren't themselves. I've had rats that got ratty, and a cat that got catty, even by the standards of their species. The rats were especially notable because they're sweet, gentle beasts, but they turned into little bitches who would nip your fingers if you tried to drag them out of their house. 

Humans are somewhat different because unlike most animals that are only fertile a few times a year, we are always fertile. Our reproductive systems work round the clock, which causes a lot of stress on the body. Consider it to be like a computer: most animals have binary states, either "fertile" or "infertile", whereas we (and a few species such as rats) are analogue, and are either "more fertile" or "less fertile" along a spectrum, but it is unnatural for us to be both infertile and in childrearing age. Maintaining our reproductive system is very stressful on the body, and the flood of hormones can cause discomfort, mood swings, irritability, physical pain, etc., but that all depends on the individual. Some women don't get any side effects from their menstrual cycles whatsoever, others need to dose themselves with powerful painkillers to survive it.

Question: Why is there an attendance policy for many classes in college when I'm the one paying for the classes?
Answer: Being the customer does not entitle you to dictate the nature of the product - all it entitles you to is the choice whether or not to purchase said product.  The professor, as the provider of said product, retain the ability to dictate what type of service they will provide and how that service will be provided.

In this case, they feel that in order to earn a decent grade and grasp the material fully, you need to attend a certain number of classes.  That is their prerogative as the teacher.  If you disagree, you are free to enroll in a different course or another institution which has requirements more to your liking.

Question: DnD Morality Alignments
Answer: The best way to explain alignments is to frame them with other media you might know, with a bit of peppering of a few things.

It's split between two axes -- we can regard these as ACTION and INTENT.

So, take the quintessential Paladin. They are honor bound, DUTY bound, to do what is right. But who decides what is right? Is it always good to follow the law to the letter? Since their ACTIONS follow the social grain, the Paladin is considered LAWFUL. What about the 'good?' Surely the Paladin's intent is good. By believing and following the letter of the law, he seeks order and protection for the weakest among them. In a sense, he seeks the sustainability of society, and the people inside it. This is why he's GOOD. Thus, Lawful Good.

But what about something different? How about Robin Hood? He doesn't follow the letter of the law, at all. In fact, he's stalwart against it. He can see that the law is oppressing, damaging the citizenry, and fights against it. His actions, then, make him CHAOTIC. Against the grain, against order, itself. Entropy. However, his INTENT, to do what is best for the citizenry, is what makes him GOOD. Thus, Chaotic Good!

If I were a mercenary, who switched sides in a conflict because it paid better, I might be Neutral Evil. In the broad spectrum, I would be doing MY JOB, but my intent, MONEY, is selfish. Evil. What about a soldier switching sides because his country is committing war crimes? At this point, the bureaucracy has failed, and he is going against the grain. Chaotic. But he's doing so not for himself, but for his country. Smaller details could mean the difference between Chaotic GOOD and Chaotic NEUTRAL. 

This alignment system works relatively well on a meta level. However, some specific circumstances  can buck this trend. Take Hitler, for example. He's a monster, right? His actions were terrible, to a tremendous degree, but what was his intent? Was it power, pride, righteousness? It could be argued from this perspective that Hitler was 'Chaotic Good,' because what he did, he did for his country, 'Chaotic Neutral,' because Country First, above self and others, merely stacks onto the action, or 'Chaotic Evil,' because his actions belied the intent.

This is why, when creating a character, their alignment is based on their surroundings -- not our world, THEIR world. In THEIR time, not ours. It is possible, for instance, in a world where there exists an open slave trade, for a Lawful Good character to treat slaves as slaves. It all begins to fall apart if you look at it through the lens of our own society.

Question: Difference between Medicare and Medicaid
Answer: Medicare is for people on social security (mostly retirees) it tends to offer more generous coverage.  

Medicaid is for those with low income.  Most of it's funds come from the federal government, but administered by each state so the program varies rather widely by state.  In general, Medicaid doesn't tend to reimburse doctors that well as Medicare so it isn't always widely accepted by doctors.

Question: How were they able to make such precise world maps 300 years before, when nobody had the possibility to get on anything higher than a mountain?
Answer: Making maps isn't about getting to a high point and drawing what you see. Map making, perhaps more technically *surveying*, is about taking measurements of things like distances and angles, recording them in a big list, and then using that list of numbers to draw a map. A bit of imagination was often used to fill in coastlines or other details but the overall shape and distances where all derived by measurement and math.

Have you ever seen people in high visibility vests peering into some sort of box/tiny telescope on a tripod while another guy a distance away is standing next to a pole? They're surveying an area (by measuring distances and angles) to create a very accurate map needed for construction or some other project. While todays tools have little digital readouts and lasers the old tools looked very similar and simply used protractors, weights on a string, compasses and measured lengths of rope (or for larger distances or at sea they used the stars to help plot positions).

Question: What exactly are goosebumps and why do we get them from a variety of emotions?
Answer: This one is fun! 

You know when a cat gets angry? Its fur puffs up and it looks like a big Tribble? That's it. The cat is getting goosebumps. It just has fur on top of the bumps.

Now, this reaction is used for a variety of things. We often notice it when we are cold. On mammals who do have fur, puffing it up traps a layer of warm air next their skin. To a degree, this does still work with us - especially for the hairier among us. 

The variety of emotions which can trigger puffy hair vary from species to species and individual to individual. (Do you get goosebumps when your about to throw-down with your local alley cat?) This is speculation, but emotionally triggered goosebumps probably exist because looking bigger never hurts when emotions are high.

Question: Why do you pee more when you're in a cold environment than in a warm one?
Answer: Sweat doesn't magically come from nowhere. It is water coming from your body, same as evaporation from your breath. Water you sweat out is water you won't urinate out. If you are dehydrating you will barely urinate if you do at all.

Question: When a specific noise wakes you up, how come you can recognise the noise even though you were just asleep?
Answer: Bias. You are only aware of noise when it wakes you up. You aren't aware of the noise you slept through.

When you are in deep sleep (N3 and REM sleep), you are very hard to wake up. Your brain takes in a relatively tiny amount of environmental information. Your brain prioritizes keeping you asleep. You generally feel like crap when you wake up directly out of deep sleep. When you are in lighter stages of sleep (N1 and N2), you take in more environmental information and are also at a point where you wake up more easily. You cycle through these stages during the night, so there are a few points during the night when you are likely to wake up if you are disturbed.

Sleep isn't an off/on switch. Think of it as a spectrum.

Question: When posting a link into a comment how do you edit it to appear as different text instead of the actual web address link?
Answer: You can also use the "formatting help" link right below the input box (where you type in the message).  When you click it, it brings up all of the formatting syntax (what to type) without refreshing the page or changing anything you've typed so far.

Question: what happens when I click on "Safely Eject Hardware" in the Windows Tray?
Answer: If you're asking what happens when you click on the icon, it is just giving you a list of removable storage devices that you can disconnect.  The repetition is to make it easier to identify which device you want to disconnect.  If you want to disconnect fappy's device, you can do it by type *or* name.

If you're asking why you need to disconnect it, that's because the data essentially exists in two places.  And all changes are not made until you eject the device.  Imagine you have two buckets, bucket A and bucket B.  In bucket A you have some water.  You want to pour the water into the bucket B, but instead of waiting to make sure you're finished pouring all of the water from A to B, someone randomly snatches bucket B away.  Now, all the water may have been poured into bucket B, and it probably has been because that bit of water pours fast, but then again there may be a bit of a mess to clean up.  And water on the floor is very corrupt water.

Question: Why is it that when some people read while reading in a car it can make people sick?
Answer: You brain is receiving two separate signals.  Your eyes are telling you that you are stationary while your ears are telling you you're moving.  This co fuses the brain and generally causes motion sickness.

Question: How does an antibiotic know how to destroy infections in random places in the body?
Answer: It affects your whole body.  Some people suffer adverse affects after taking antibiotics because they can throw off your entire system.  We've got plenty of organisms in our bodies that are good for us.  Sometimes, they get caught in the crossfire.

Question: Why is it impossible to achieve total Game Balance in RPGS/MMORPGS games in general?
Answer: Imagine that you are playing tag in the playground. Johnny and his friends all play tag together, The school has just released a whole new set of equipment for the playground and this included a whole set of shoes!

Now to start with everyone just wears the things that are most fun. But Johnny figures out that the red shoes are actually 2% faster than any of the other shoes!

Johnny is actually very good at Tag and plays a lot of tag after school as well so uses these shoes all the time. All the other players that were good at tag are now not as good as Johnny because of his shoes. So they all buy the red shoes until over 50% of people are wearing the red shoes!

Now Billy, who only sometimes plays tag and isn't as good as everyone else, but he doesn't mind, because he has fun. But now, most times he gets tagged it is by someone wearing red shoes! Johnny begins to think that it isnt fair and he should buy some red shoes as well and is upset every time he gets caught.

In his mind, the red shoes are totally over powered because he only ever gets caught by people in red shoes, but in reality they are only 2% better, just everyone has adopted them!

Basically: There will always be one item that is the best. And people that are trying to be #1 will always use that item. Even if it was 0.001% better, it would still be used!

Question: Amazon free shipping. Pay $1 more to meet the free shipping minimum, or pay $10 for shipping because you're short $1 of the free shipping minimum. It seems like Amazon is eating the $9 either way, why not just charge $1 for shipping to simplify things?
Answer: You forget the margins on the items you are buying.  We don't know what their profit margins are. 

And their algorithms may not be accurate or fudge things - they may eat it on some stuff and not eat it on others.

The whole "add on item" is a relatively new thing to keep people like me from gaming the system.


My wife forgot to cancel Prime and now I'm having a field day with it. We were ahead by May - although, that meant buying just about *everything* from Amazon; which means some Amazon analyst may be laughing at my ignorance. 

tl;dr: You can't just look at shipping costs to see if you're really ahead. 
Are you buying stuff for the sake of hitting the minimum for "free" shipping? They just got you.

[EDIT] and some of Amazon's prices suck so I buy locally even though I DO have Prime. 

Question: Why does global warming cause the sea levels to rise, if water takes up more space as ice anyway?
Answer: Two factors. One, ice on land is melting, and that water runs downhill into the ocean.

Two, and more important, while ice takes up more space than an equivalent amount of water, warmer water takes up more space (expands) than cooler water. The contribution of ice in the ocean 'shrinking' as it becomes water, is far less than what would be needed to offset the expansion of the liquid ocean itself as it warms.

Question: What happens that causes the "shock" feeling when you eat something sweet after not eating for a while (assuming this happens to everyone)?
Answer: Not sure exactly what you're referring to--is the shock feeling kind of like a sudden sick feeling? This can happen due to lack of protein; it happens to my brother often when he has a lot of carbs for breakfast (pancakes, cereal, etc) but no big source of protein. He's usually fine for a while, but the next time he eats, he starts feeling strange and shaky, and the feeling doesn't go away until he gets a decent bit of protein in him (a big spoonful of peanut butter works nicely). I think it has to do with the body's expectation of certain nutrients at all times of eating. 

If the shock feeling is something else... no idea, sorry.

Question: What's the difference between the ("th-uh") and the ("thee")?
Answer: There is no meaning difference. They are both the same word. It is just different pronunciations. Most of the time "thee" is going to be used before a vowel sound and "thuh" otherwise ("thee" egg, "thuh" boat).

People also use the "thee" pronunciation before non-vowel sounds to indicate emphasis on the fact that it is a definite article ("He is *"thee"* best" to emphasize that there is only one)

Question: Why do old people get disturbed by loud sounds when, in fact, they have much weaker hearing capacity?
Answer: When hearing loss due to old age starts it is usually high pitched receptors that fail first. So it is harder for them to hear normal speech but they can still hear lower frequencies. So a loud noise that has a deep resonance can still be irritating. Imagine listening to a top of the line surround sound system where all the tweeters are broken. It just doesn't sound right.

Question: Why is it when I have a cold or flu, I sometimes feel really cold and start shivering violently, even though when I feel my skin I'm warm?
Answer: This is a side effect of fever.  Your body temperature is above normal, but your brain wants you running hot in order to help kill the infection, so encourages you to seek warmth.  This is on top of the fact that because of your increased body temperature, surrounding air feels that much colder compared to your skin temperature.

There are many fever-reducing medications available OTC like ibuprofen and acetaminophen

Question: How does Darcy Oake's do these (magical) illusions?
Answer: Sleight of hand and misdirection.  

He has you focus on the feather and the fire, while his other hand reaches into his jacket and pulls out a dove.  He's got four doves, a little other bird, and an egg there.  In his right sleeve, he has a collapsible wire cage that can expand quickly when you pull on the top of it.  He makes it appear while the flames trick you for an instant and hide the movement.

Every time he makes something come out of "nowhere", you'll notice he does something with one hand, while the other reaches into his clothing to pull out the appearing animal/item.

The second bird in the cage is likely a fake plastic one, btw, which is why he quickly hands it off to his assistant.  

The black lining in the back of the cage where all four doves are hides a hidden compartment where the woman is hiding.  When he tilts it towards the viewers, you can see a dividing horizontal line where the back wall is; the cage is actually half as deep as you are lead to believe, so the woman can hide behind it, under the sheet.

Question: What is actually going on when you hit your funny bone?
Answer: You're hitting the ulnar nerve, which is a big honkin' nerve that runs down your arm. Most of the time, it is cushioned beneath lots of fat and muscles, but at the elbow joint, it is exposed and relatively close to the surface of your skin. As such, it is vulnerable to impact which makes your arm feel all tingly as the impact causes it to fire off impulses.

Question: . Why are moths attracted to light?
Answer: *Artificial light is a recent arrival on the night scene. Until recently, the only night-lights were the moon and the stars. Being at optical infinity, their rays are parallel, which makes them ideal compasses. Insects are known to use celestial objects to steer accurately in a straight line. The insect nervous system is adept at setting up a temporary rule of thumb such as, “Steer a course such that the light rays hit your eye at an angle of 30°.” Since insects have compound eyes, this will amount to favoring a particular ommatidium (individual optical tube radiating out from the center of the compound eye). However, the light compass relies critically on the celestial object being at optical infinity. If it is not, the rays are not parallel but diverge like the spokes of a wheel. A nervous system using a 30° rule of thumb to a candle, as though it were the moon, will steer its moth, in a neat logarithmic spiral, into the flame. It is still, on average, a good rule of thumb. We do not notice the hundreds of moths who are silently and effectively steering by the moon or a bright star or even the lights of a distant city. We see only moths hurling themselves at our lights, and we ask the wrong question. Why are all these moths committing suicide? Instead, we should ask why they have nervous systems that steer by maintaining an automatic fixed angle to light rays, a tactic that we only notice on the occasions when it goes wrong. When the question is rephrased, the mystery evaporates* - Richard Dawkins

Question: what is quantum internet and why is it so important?
Answer: Ok, I've been reading some comments that are just plain wrong or overly complicated, so I'll try my best to ELI5 Internet, encryption and quantum physics and one spot.

Imagine you want to send a very important letter to your friend Bob, only he may read it, but you don't really trust your mailman, or the post office at your town, neither the central post thing in your state, much less the post office at Bob's town and you never really liked Bob's mailman.

But Bob is your friend of a long time and you have this special code that only you and Bob can read and write in, so you type the letter in that code and send it to Bob. The thing is, the evil mail man has been trying to read your letters to Bob for a while and after many trial and error he now can read it! You and Bob have no idea you are being eavesdropped.

A quantum internet, would be like putting a seal on your crate to Bob (because on quantum internet you're not sending letters anymore, you're sending crates, it's that much faster), it would be completely impossible to read the letter to Bob without breaking the seal, so, if someone were to read it Bob would know and maybe Bob can even think that the letter might have been changed by one of the readers. 

A letter with a broken seal is considered by Bob as wrong, tainted, invalid and can be discarded on arrival.

Question: How is the White House over 200 years old but still able to keep up with modern security standards?
Answer: It has been updated and renovated on several occasions since it was last burnt by the British.

Question: Right-hand or Left-hand dominance
Answer: Probably the simplest (accurate, but not complete) explanation for a 5-year-old is that when you're a baby you figure out how to do something with one hand, and so you keep doing that thing with that hand instead of trying with the other. Then when it comes to doing more things, you're just more used to using that hand so you keep doing so. Some things require both hands (and your 'not-writing' hand will be fine at doing them) but for things that take just one hand you just keep using the hand that's had more practice.

Question: Why can you download entire YouTube videos by copying/paste the URL into a website but not do the same with Netflix?
Answer: Netflix has protections in place to prevent this, since its content is 100% copyrighted.  YouTube, on the other hand, is not always such sensitive material and therefore doesn't have as much security against downloading its content.

Question: Why do tears come out while yawning when we are really tired?
Answer: When we open our mouths to yawn, the muscles around our eyes put pressure on our tear ducts; when the yawn is particularly wide, the pressure is great enough that our facial muscles literally 'squeeze' tears out of the ducts.

Question: If Almonds contain all of the essential Amino Acids to form complete proteins, why are they considered incomplete protein sources?
Answer: Technically yes you could eat 1000 calories worth of almonds to reach your essential amino acid requirement across the board. However it is much more reasonable to combine almonds with a grain which is higher in methionine and leucine, this is called complementary protein intake. So when they are talking about a complete protein they are limiting it to a certain amount of such a protein and it's ability to meet the necessary requirements. With animal protein (complete proteins) it is very easy to reach the needed amount of the 9 essential amino acids but using the equivalent amount of almonds would not be possible. This is why they stress for vegetarians to pair complementary proteins to fulfill their essential amino acid requirements. However as mentioned theoretically since almonds do contain all 9 essentials in varying amounts it would be possible to consume a great deal of almonds to fulfill that need but not really necessary when certain grains are available to complement.

Question: ELI: Why are sales taxes only enforced when shopping stores and online?
Answer: You are.

You are supposed to write the person a receipt, which they then show while registering the vehicle, and then pay the tax there in order to have ownership transferred to them.

Question: Is burning fecal waste beneficial in one way or another such as generating power to using the ashes as fertilizer?
Answer: One of best things about burning the waste is that you've reduced it's volume, so it's easier to transport and store, and it's probably safer than it was before burning. Regarding other benefits, if the waste is dry enough you can generate power from burning it (otherwise it's wasted for evaporating the water) and I'm not sure if the ashes are viable as a fertilizer at all, and generally ash from burning waste is rather undesirable (at least in my country) and just stored at landfills. Though I doubt fecal waste is just burned here, because it's most likely better to use the waste for generating biogas, basically you stockpile the dung in favorable conditions, initiate fermentation and get methane. This time I know that what's left of the waste is indeed usable as a fertillizer.

Question: If Flash Storage is so useful, why do we still use Hard Drives?
Answer: USB flash drives average $1 per gigabyte. Magnetic hard drives average 5.3 cents per gigabyte. Additionally, a magnetic hard drive is typically 2-4 times as fast as a USB flash drive, or even faster. USB flash drives also have write limitations; there are only so many times you can write to them.

If we're talking *solid state* hard drives, then those are faster than magnetic hard drives, and they cost about 81 cents a megabyte -- cheaper than USB flash, but much more expensive than magnetic. Those *do* require a power source, though.

So basically, flash storage is tougher and more resistant to water and dirt, but it's much slower and much more expensive.

Question: What are the pros and cons of mp4, webm and HTML5 video formats? When to use one over the other?
Answer: None of them are video formats.

MP4 and WebM aren't video formats, they're "container" formats. A container is just like a box you toss multiple kinds of data into to keep them all in one place -- kind of like a zip or rar file. When you have a video file, you usually have the video stream, audio stream, chapter index, subtitles, maybe menus, maybe *multiple* video/audio/subtitles. They're all in different formats -- the subtitles can be plaintext or transparencies, the video might be MPEG-2 or AVC, the audio might be MP3 or AC3. To wrap them up together in one file, synchronise timing between them, properly interleave the audio and video so the file is accessed linearly, etc you put them inside a container -- and that container is MP4, or MKV, or AVI, or MOV. But the container tells you nothing about what type, format, or quality of video data is inside. You can take the streams out of an AVI container and put them in a WebM one in under a second without touching the actual video data.

HTML5 isn't a video format either. HTML is a markup language used to write webpages; in HTML version 5, they added support for ` < video > ` tags. HTML5 video is just video linked in these tags and rendered directly by the browser, as opposed to the older system of using Flash applets to display video. HTML5 says absolutely nothing about the video or container formats used.

Examples of video formats: MPEG-2 Part 2 (used on DVD and TV), MPEG-4 Part 10 (used on Blu-ray, YouTube, and some TV channels), MPEG-H Part 2 (the new format starting to appear everywhere, used for 4K and 8K TV), Theora, VP8, and VP9 (used by Imgur, Gfycat, etc), DNXHD (used for editing).

Examples of container formats: AVI, MKV, MP4, MOV, WebM.

There are a few reasons for varying video formats: some get higher quality at given bitrates (a 10Mb/s HEVC video is a lot better than a 10 Mb/s MPEG-2 Part 2 video), some are better-suited for editing (ProRes and DNxHD store complete frames, most other formats do not), some have widely-available hardware decoders (your phone probably has an H264 decoder in it but not an H265 decoder, so the former will be a lot smoother and lighter on your battery even though the latter is a better format), etc. But the container is mostly irrelevant, you can't make any decision based on container.

Question: EIL5: What's the real difference between AA, AAA, 9v, D, etc. batteries? And why did Dildos/Vibrators take only C's for so long?
Answer: AA, AAA, C, and D batteries are all 1.5 volts. But they differ considerably in the amount of current and time they can produce. A bigger battery can produce more power over time.

A 9V battery is just that - 9 volts. But it has a lower current throughput.

As for why a vibrator takes a C battery I can only conjecture that it is a very power-hungry device so needs the largest practicable battery. And because the device has a width limitation (because of the nature of the environment in which it is required to operate) the maximum diameter acceptable is probably that of a C battery but not a D.

Question: What really happens when people die of "old age" or "natural causes" ?
Answer: what happens is the family and doctors agree it is not worth determining what the actual cause of death was.

actual cause is often heart failure, but frankly could be almost anything that isn't blatantly obvious from an external inspection.

edit: stroke is another common cause. may actually be even more common that heart attack for "old age" deaths, as it can hit suddenly with less obvious symptoms.

Question: - what is the "nails on a chalkboard" sensation?
Answer: We don't exactly know, but there are some good ideas on it. 

The most prevalent theories say that the sounds which cause this reaction (nails on a chalkboard, fork on a plate, ect) do so for reasons related to evolutionary biology. Specifically, the sound has strong similarities to some warning calls given by certain primates. It's possible that we still are unnerved by this because our ancestors had similar warning calls, or perhaps some predators made a sound like it. 

There are also some theories that relate the intensity of the sound to the shape of our ears. it's possible the frequency is affected by ear canal shapes and that frequency increases when the sound goes through your ears, to the point of being very painful or unnerving compared to other noises. 

I personally find the sound extremely irritating and unnerving, but not painful, so the former theory seems more likely to me. We really just don't know for sure yet.

Question: Why why when Russia invade a country all the people from america stand up shouting for violation of right of Sovereignty and why when the US do the same American people show a lot of support ?
Answer: Let me explain it to you:

The US is the bestest most amazing country ever in the history of the universe. We were singled out by god to be mankind's only hope, a shining example of awesomeness that every other country on Earth envies and wishes they could be like. Therefore, anything we ever do is by definition perfect. That's why we can criticize other countries for behavior that we engage in ourselves: when we do it, it's right because we're awesome, but when other countries do it, it's wrong because they suck.

Question: Why it is more common for men to go bald
Answer: It's the male hormone testosterone that does that and since women don't have that much of it men goes bald and women don't. The less hair you've got the more testosterone you have in your body.
Bald men usually have higher levels of testosterone than in women.

Question: the theory that cutting taxes on the rich increases overall tax revenue
Answer: Imagine if the govt taxed everyone's income at 100%. Although the rate is very high, the tax revenue they'd get from it would be $0. This is because when people don't get to keep any of their earnings, they won't bother to work. So we can see that in this situation a "tax cut" would certainly increase tax revenue.

Alternatively, however, if you tax income at 0%, the govt will also receive $0 in revenue, obviously. Anyone can now see that there is a "curve" which shows the amount of tax revenue generated at each rate. This is called the [Laffer Curve](_URL_0_) It's impossible to tell what the curve looks like, but we can see that at some places on the curve, tax revenue would increase at lower rates. 

It's up for debate where the "optimal" place is on the curve, but that's the theory behind these cuts.

Question: How would you go about making metal tools from scratch? Assume you're stranded on an island and can only use what nature has given you.
Answer: you should watch this video, this guy decided he was going to make a toaster from scratch.

_URL_0_

Question: What’s bad about dystopia if everyone lives in the society truly think and feel they are happy?
Answer: If they are *truly* happy, I'm not sure it can be a dystopia. If it's enforced/artificial happiness, then you're encroaching on people's free feelings.

Question: Why do some men find it attractive when women swallow semen?
Answer: Matters of opinion are not for ELI5. Try /r/askreddit

Question: Why can't we make cheese from human breast milk?
Answer: There’s no reason we can’t make human milk cheese in theory. A quick googling shows a bunch of stories about it and even a recipe. 
The main reasons we don’t encounter it normally are two fold. First is the hygiene angle. There are a number of diseases that can be passed in breast milk. The second is supply. A woman can only produce so much breast milk and a hungry baby can drink a surprising abound of it

Question: Why didn't evolution decide our teeth can only be maintained through dental chemicals and treatment?
Answer: During most of human history, we ate almost no sugars at all (hunter gatherer societies have very few sources of carbohydrates, i.e. complex sugars). It is carbohydrates and sugars that feed the bacteria that cases tooth decay (the bacteria converts sugar to acids, which dissolve the calcium in the enamel), and stone age people rarely ate enough sugars for this to become a problem.

What stone age societies actually have a problem with is constantly chewing tough meats and roots causing teeth to wear away and fall out. And that's why adults grow wisdom teeth, to replace those fallen teeth.

Question: Why can I switch between running programs instantly on quite old PCs whereas on smartphones, even the most modern ones, it always takes several seconds?
Answer: There's something wrong with your phone if going from an app to another takes multiple seconds.

It is true however that mobile oses freeze the apps that are not active to save power.

And phone apps are often fullscreen only because the screens are so small. If you actually need to multitask on the go, carry a laptop.

Question: How will the closing of so many Wal Mart stores affect local economies?
Answer: Because the way WalMart moved in on those communities in the first place was to steamroll into town and undercut all local businesses, forcing them to go under. Pretty soon, WalMart becomes The Only Game in Town, and if it pulls out, all that's left is a big muddy hole. No local commerce, no local jobs, a huge hit to the tax base.

It costs money to start up a business from scratch, and a lot of the people who owned mom & pop stores and were flattened retired or moved on.

Question: can someone please ELI5 the functions of independent, dependent, and standardized variables in the scientific method?
Answer: The independent variable is the variable that you control and change.

The dependent variable is what you're measuring. It changes as a function of the independent variable. Or at least it does if your experiment is valid.

A standard variable is basically a validation of your experiment. It has a known set of data associated with it. If you use a standard in the same experimental design as your other variables and get wacky results, there's probably something wrong with your experiment.

Example: 

* Your investigation is to measure the rate at which culinary fats melt as temperature varies. 

* You are investigating beef fat, margarine, and bacon fat. For some reason, you have pages of data on how butter melts. Butter will be your **standard**.

* For each fat, you place a precisely measured amount in an oven. The temperature of the oven is the **independent variable** because that is what you are changing.

* You measure the rate of melting for each fat. The time it takes to melt is the **dependent variable** because that is what changes *in response* to the independent variable.

* How does a standard typically come into play? When possible, it's used alongside unknown variables. So in this case, you would simultaneously heat the butter and the beef fat. Then the butter and the margarine, etc. Did the melt time of the butter differ drastically from the literature? There must be something wrong.

Question: Why does the back button on the browser work and other times does not?
Answer: When you've been automatically redirected from one address to another, depending how that was implemented, the back button can take you to the place you were redirected from - at which point, you're immediately redirected again.  Thus, you have to click it twice, fast enough that the second one comes before the redirect, and you get back to where you were.

What do I mean by "depending how that was implemented"?  Well, if the website was correctly using HTTP REDIRECT that doesn't happen (because the browser just treats it as one page-change directly to the new address, instead of two), but lots do it in javascript instead, at which point this comes into play.

Some advertisers, in particular, do this deliberately to make escaping their ads much harder.  It's obnoxious, but it must be working for them or they wouldn't do it.

As a side note, this can always be bypassed (in Firefox and Chrome, at least) by long-pressing (e: or right-clicking; thanks, u/Qwerty_Resident!) on the Back button (or, where it exists, clicking the drop-down arrow beside it) to get a dropdown of previous pages, and then selecting the page to which you actually want to go back from the list.

Question: Differences in performances of artists in classical music: ELI5 how does one tell a superb conductor from an average one, or a superb, award winning pianist from a "plain", skilled musical school graduate?
Answer: A good conductor is one who is able to get exactly the emotion and sound out of the orchestra that they have in their head *and* have the artistic sense to know what will sound good.  The audience will notice the second of those traits, the orchestra will notice the first.  Doing so requires a great deal of expression and the ability to relate and communicate, as well as a keen artistic ear.  The compositions themselves are just sketches that the conductor and performers fill in with details.  

A good pianist is much the same, except the first part of the conductors skill is replaced with the ability to coax the sounds out of their instrument that they have in their head.  This is true of all instrumentalists.  It takes years of practice to do this, and there is a lot of subtlety to it.  Then, they have to have the artistic sense to know what sounds they want to get.  Some people naturally have a better idea than others, some get it by listening to *lots and lots* of music.  Basically, the best instrumentalist is the one who can take a great musical idea and make you feel like it was just planted into your head.  They are talented because they both have that great idea, and have the ability to communicate it to you effectively.

As for what ideas are great ones, well, you basically have to listen to a lot of music to hear it.  

One thing to think about:  all good music strives to be in balance in some way.  Loud and soft, fast and slow, harsh and soothing, etc.  Most pieces don't vary every factor, but one thing that makes a piece interesting is that it shows you two sides of a coin.  Maybe it's a relaxing piece overall, but a great one will show you relaxing while being loud and slow AND while being soft and fast, all the while remaining relaxing.  

A good performer can take some aspect of a piece, maybe how fast a particular section goes, or how it is articulated, and take it to a relative extreme, more *something* than most people would think you could and still have it sound good, but then they will balance it out with something else so they create something that is more interesting than the original, but still conveys the same message -- not just "oh they made it faster".

Question: What is at the center of Gas Giant planets and what holds them together? Why do they have an atmosphere?
Answer: What holds them together is gravity. 

As you go into a gas giant the atmosphere which is mostly hydrogen gets thicker. Eventually you get so much pressure that you get liquid hydrogen, and then at the very core you will have solid hydrogen/whatever heavier elements the planet has absorbed.

Question: Why are people so "stranger-phobic" nowadays?
Answer: Because the media shows so many awfull things happening, that no one actually trusts eachother anymore. That, and I have no idea what to say to strangers, I'm not really talkative and when I do say something in the nicest way, I mostly get a very rude response.
Lots of people blame it on internet and videogames making people less social, but I don't believe in that.

Question: How does genetic drift work?
Answer: Genetic drift is simply changes in the gene pool of a population due to chance.

Let's say you have a population of 10 bugs. 5 of the bugs have Gene R which makes the Red in color.  5 of the bugs have Gene B which makes them Blue.  Being red or blue is equally advantageous in hiding from their color blind predator, the Monotone Sparrow, so natural selection isn't driving the frequency of red bugs versus blue bugs.  

Let's say that the local monotone sparrow eats 7 of the 10 bugs. 5 of them happen to be red.  This didn't happen because the bird could see the red bugs better. It was just random chance.  But now, there are no more red bugs.  Gene R has been totally eliminated from this population.  So the population has drifted to a population made up entirely of blue bugs with Gene B.

Question: How does public-key cryptography work?
Answer: Public (also known as Asymmetric) encryption is best explained by [this picture](_URL_0_). Just take a second to digest each step and realize how both parties do indeed come to the same result and that if you were spying on them in public, it would be difficult to determine their private colors. Now replace the ideas with colors with keys (large primes) and the act of un-mixing paint as factoring very large semi-prime numbers. That's generally how the Diffie-Hellman key exchange works today. It wasn't even thought to be possible until the 70s.

Once both parties has this shared key (same color), they can use that as a key for further communication since it's a secret that only they know of. Pretty neat! There are variations of this idea that use moduli, group theory, and advanced number theory to do the same basic thing but it's all the same idea. This is only a basic explanation of modern public-key cryptography.

Question: How and why do does the WestBoro Baptist Church make money?
Answer: They did and iama recently. They all hold down regular jobs and some are lawyers, so they are not poor. In any case, what do they need money for? The only expenses they have are travel costs and it's not like they do it for the money.

Useful info from the inside:
_URL_1_

_URL_0_

Question: What the hell do we need the stock market for, /explainlikeimfive
Answer: Do you remember when you started your lemonade stand? Well, you didn't have any money then, so you had to ask us to help start out your shiny new business! This is called Venture Capital! We gave you some money, with the hope that you'll turn it into a big business and pay us back and some more!

Now that you have a big profitable lemonade stand, you want to start up other lemonade stands down the street! However, you don't quite have enough money, so you have to start asking to borrow money from other people. We already gave you as much as we have, so you have to ask others. Now, you could go door-to-door and ask everyone to help out, but that would take a long time and might not even work. So, people invented the stock market to help out! You would go to the stock market and shout out there that you want money and will sell a small piece of your company! Anyone who gives you money gets a small piece of the profits!

Then, some people might not want to keep a piece of your company, maybe it's becoming winter and nobody wants lemonade anymore. What those people will do is go to the stock market and tell everyone that they have a piece of your company and will sell it to anyone who asks with the right price! The person who buys that piece, or share, of your company will then get some of the profits, while the person who sold it has money that he can use to buy a piece of a different company.

The price that people sell it for is completely random!! Initially, you set the price for the initial sale (Initial Public Offering) of your company, but once people start buying and sharing shares of your company, you can't do anything to control the price. So, that means that if people think your company is going to do really well, they'll be willing to pay more for those shares, and if it's winter, then people will pay less for them. But, it's all up to what people think will happen! This could be some random bit of news about your company like an announcement of a new lemonade stand, or related information like a drop in price of lemons, or something as silly as people selling your company for no reason!

However, to make all this magic happen, there has to be a central place where people can trade shares of your company, and so they invented stock markets!

Question: An overview of WWII
Answer: Germany was pissed off about losing the WWI and being saddled with some horrifying economic punishments courtesy of the Treaty of Versaille. A guy called Hitler rose to power by loudly bitching and moaning about how unfair it all was and how the German people deserved so much better. The German people loved having their ego stroked like that so they voted the guy into power.

Meanwhile, Japan was pissed because of something called the ABCD encirclement (American, British, Chinese, and Dutch), which was basically starving them of oil and resources that they needed to build their country into a superpower. 

So, Hitler got greedy and started taking over European countries, and Japan got greedy and started taking over the entire Pacific ocean, so a bunch of other countries got together to beat them up a bit, get them back under control, and put things more or less back to normal. The Americans used the war as political leverage to leapfrog England into the pre-eminent position of power in the western world, and Germany was once again saddled with heavy punishment and reparation payments (which they're still making to this day). Japan got nuked and suffered from permanent military occupation by the Americans (which still goes on to this day). 

Russia got their ass kicked in the first half of the war, but rebounded strongly enough to make them a superpower in their own right. The Americans absolutely hated that, which led to a long period of uneasy relations between the US and Russia which we now call the Cold War (which, in a way, is also still going on to this day).

Question: Why is sign language different in different parts of the world?
Answer: if you learn sign language you will notice it's basically a sign for each word. if you learn a second language you will learn that each language has different rules for words, like the order of noun/verb might be flipped or one language will use a second word while another will change the ending of a word. so each spoken language kind of needs its own sign language to match how the spoken language works.

Question: What is the difference between applied physics and engineering?
Answer: I'm actually majoring in physics. Theoretical physics to be honest, but we were forced to do some applied stuff too. But I've also worked as an intern in an engineering office which makes me feel like I can draw a comparison. 
Engineering focusses on problems on a higher level than applied physics does. Applied physics bothers with developing stuff that will become the building blocks of engineers like LEDs or the mechanisms behind and LCD display. Also, physicists in solid state physics try to derive actually how to build new materials that suffice certain properties whereas I feel like engineers stand more on the side of using these materials to the fullest extent. So in a way physicists do innovation more on a molecular level whereas engineers focus on a macroscopic level, as they do not get the training to fully understand atomic and molecular physics.

Question: Why do we get drunk, when we drink alcohol?
Answer: Alcohol is a friendly guy. He loves to hug things, like your brain cells. When you drink a lot of alcohol your brain winds up being too busy hugging alcohol to work right. Alcohol is also a very thirsty guy. That's why you wake up dehydrated.

Question: How does electrical current "know" which path offers the least resistance?
Answer: They don't. Electrons follow the path of least resistance in the same way that water flows downhill. The electrons do not act collectively, each individual electron is driven away from other electrons, and driven toward positive charges. The collective result is well described by the statement that they follow the path of least resistence.

Question: how do actors do smoking scenes?
Answer: They often smoke herbal cigarettes that don't contain tobacco _URL_0_

Question: Why is air generally colder in the upper atmosphere, even though hot air rises, and it receives more direct sunlight?
Answer: Air pressure is equal to the weight of all the air above in the atmosphere, so it decreases with altitude. Therefore when hot air rises, its pressure decreases and it expands and gets colder. 

The reason why it cools down is hard to explain without using math, but it's the same as when you open a compressed air bottle for example. (The math is based on the assumptions that there is no heat exchanged with the rest of the atmosphere and that the transformation is reversible, so the entropy is constant).

Since in the troposphere (lower part of the atmosphere, below approximately 10000 m) air moves a lot with weather phenomenons, it gets colder with increasing altitude. This is not the case above (in the stratosphere) as this layer is stable and heat conduction makes the temperature close to constant.

Question: Who decides if art is 'good' and what it's worth?
Answer: Usually it's based on the body of work of the artist.

For example, by the end of his work life Joan Miró was placing a single stripe of paint on a canvas and these are very prized even though *anybody* could place a stripe of paint on a canvas.

Like he'd stare at the canvas for a while and then in one fluid movement put a single stroke down and he'd love it and everyone else would love it.

This is because he spent his whole life evolving from being a talented painter that you'd probably call "normal" (i.e. he made pretty pictures with paint) to becoming a more and more abstract painter.

He kept reducing the complexity of his forms to see how to express emotions and form in an ever increasingly abstract way so that after decades of doing this he had developed a kind of language of form that was uniquely his.

So if you're aware of his progression and have an understanding of how to "read" his abstraction you can see how his single stripe of paint has meaning and is different and special compared to a stupid stripe of paint that just *anyone* could do.

Question: How are we able to type fast without thinking about the key placement, yet probably wouldn't be able to recollect where the keys are without a keyboard
Answer: Muscle memory versus actual memorization. They are stored differently than regular learned memories. Therefore accessed differently. Which is why when you need a key you very seldom use you still look.

Question: The difference between republican and democrat and what they believe in.
Answer: Put very broadly, and recognizing that there are a lot of variations within the parties, Republicans are the "conservative" party and Democrats are the "liberal" or "progressive" party. In terms of actual policy positions, Republicans tend to be in favor of smaller government involvement in the economy, a larger and more active military, and more regulation of personal behavior in order to comport with traditional morality. Democrats tend to be in favor of more government involvement in the economy, a smaller military that is used more sparingly around the world, and adopting programs that help people to be/do what makes them happy regardless of any external moral view.

Those are *very broad* statements that are missing a lot of nuance, and there are certainly people in each party who don't match up. But as a general understanding, that's it.

EDIT TO ADD: Also keep in mind that the United States as a whole is generally more conservative than most of western Europe, Canada, Japan, and other countries we compare ourselves too. What that means is that a standard Democrat in America holds policy views that are oftentimes closer to the policy views of a more conservative party elsewhere.

Question: Why do we shake our hands after we punch things?
Answer: I would like to venture a guess on this. I think it's a response to some pain or itching signals coming from the nerves in your hand, a very common after effect of punching something solid. The reason we scratch an itch is because it creates a small amount of pain (scratch anywhere that doesn't itch to see that it hurts a little), and pain signals get priority over the itching signals on your nerve pathways, which is an evolutionary trait that many animals share, presumably because someone who is more aware of pain signals than other nerve signals is more likely to treat injuries, and protect themselves and therefore more likely to survive and reproduce. It's just a guess but perhaps the shaking disrupts or overrides some of those pain signals for similar reasons (you need to know it hurts of course, but if you still haven't gotten away from danger you still need your muscles to work, so exerting a lot of force on the muscles in that region of the body will tell your brain to ignore the pain signals for the moment so that you can still use the body part in question).

Question: How can such a huge company, like yahoo, afford to rebrand themselves after becoming so prominent under their current brand?
Answer: simple answer... they cant afford not to.

yahoo is not a sustainable business, as proven by years of losses and failed remedies.

they need cash, and if selling the yahoo brand to verizon provides that cash, so be it.  Just as sears recently sold craftsman to black and decker.  

chances are yahoo is positioning to turn out the lights anyway, so I am not sure if there are any legitimate plans to actually sustain the remainco/altaba name.

Question: How did J. R. R. Tolkien invent his elvish language?
Answer: He was a linguist who was very talented and very imaginative.

Question: If you flew a spacecraft into a gas planet, would you go straight through it or would you hit some form of ground?
Answer: That's pretty much why we've sent Juno up to Jupiter; I understand that it's going to be firing some kind of radar through the atmosphere to see what reflections come back.

There are also theories that due to the extreme pressure, the core may contain phase 5 hydrogen, a state in which it forms into a metallic structure.

_URL_0_

Question: How have we come so far with visual technology like 4k and 8k screens but a phone call still sounds like am radio?
Answer: The reason phone calls don't have perfect audio has all to do with three things.

* Bandwidth
* Physical medium of the delivery technology
* The codec used

They are all closely related.

If you think of a data connection as a water pipe, there is only so much data that can be passed down the connection, just like a water pipe can only carry so many gallons of water a second.

If you make the water pipe bigger, the pipe can carry more gallons a second and deliver more water faster to its source. This is broadly comparable to using better connectivity for our data connections. For example fibre optic cable can carry much more data a lot faster than the copper cables that are used to connect most of our homes.

To that end, when a phone conversation is initiated between two people, the sound of the voices from each party is in fact, a data connection that gets converted into an analogue frequency. Now uncompressed audio takes up a lot of space and can be slow to transfer, so to reduce it down to something more manageable, phone systems use something called a CODEC (en*CO*de/*DEC*ode) that basically analyses the audio, and throws out the bits of data that it thinks is not relevant to the clarity of the conversation. The more data it throws out, the more "AM Radio" the conversation sounds.

The standard codec used by most public telephone systems (Generally known as the "PSTN" to phone engineers or "Public Switched Telephone Network") is something called U-LAW. Europe uses a variation of it called A-LAW. It allows 64Kbp/s of data for each way of the conversation (So 128Kbp/s total). It's been around since the 70's and is fairly embedded into most phone systems. It also closely matched and fitted the best data rate offered by twisted copper connections that where used at the time (And predominantly still are).

The days of the "AM radio" phone call are coming to an end though, if quite slowly.

Many new codecs have been developed alongside newer communications technology since the 70's that allow for greater clarity in a phone conversation. They do this by improved methods of packing in the audio data and more sophisticated ways of deciding what parts of the audio need to be thrown away and what needs to be kept. Some are even able to do this using a smaller transfer speed than the U-LAW codec. Most of these improved quality codecs are referred to as wideband codecs or "HD audio". This has come about with the rise of a technology called VOIP or "Voice Over IP" which is basically a phone system that utilizes the same technology that underpins the internet (TCP/IP) to deliver an all digital phone service.

One of the most popular codecs used by internal phone systems of companies/organizations (Which is sometimes referred to as a PBX or Private Branch Exchange) is a codec called G722. The difference in audio quality between G722 and U-LAW is like night and day.

Cellular technology is also catching up on the wideband conversation game. Indeed many mobile carriers are offering wideband calls between users on the same network. This uses a codec called AMR-WB. It's generally predicted within ten years or so wideband audio for mobile phone calls will become the norm **where supported**.

I emphasise that "Where supported" bit because like most communication methods, a phone call has to negotiate down to the level of the lowest offering. So if a phone conversation is initiated between two phone systems, one side tries to use a wideband codec like G722 and the other side only supports U-LAW, then both phones will use U-LAW and the conversation will return to the "AM Radio" quality for both callers.

Question: Why are there different sockets on motherboard for CPUs? Why isn't there a universal socket to fit all CPUs?
Answer: Part of it forces you to upgrade your entire computer at a certain points and part of it is due to compatibility.

As for the compatibility part, when a socket is designed it has certain features they are trying to support, DDR2, PCI-E 2.0, Sata 2.0, ect. In the future this same design may not work for newer features such as PCI-E 3.0, DDR3, Sata 3.0 ect. If you look at the AMD side where they have used the same AM3 socket for their high end chips, it's due to them not supporting all of the latest features.

Question: Why is it that after a full meal, when I can't eat any more, I somehow make more space for a dessert?
Answer: there are probably two parts to this:

- there was a study that found that we want variety when we eat. We evolved in a way that our body needs several kinds of minerals and nutrients. In order to incentivize us to get them, the body tells us "this is enough" after eating a large portion of one food, but as soon as we see another, it says "hey, I could use some of that". In the study they tried it with smarties/M & Ms: People ate the yellow (or whatever) ones until they couldnt anymore, but when presented with green (any other colour) ones, they had no trouble eating more of them.

- you know about the delight the sugar brings you and view desert as a reward of some kind

Question: Why is that computers connect to just one wifi connection and not multiple ones at the same time?
Answer: Wifi cards only have one tuner and transmitter, think of it like a standard radio. You cant tune to 2 stations at the same time, a transmitter can only transmit on one station at a time as well.

Question: What causes the eyes to close and feel natural when sleepy, but unnatural and difficult to keep closed when fully awake?
Answer: I don't think I have this wants to spring open when awake thing.

Question: why is it called lake michigan and not michigan sea? lake superior and not superior sea?
Answer: Geologically speaking, altitude.  200' above present sea level is, by definition, always a lake.

Inland seas are low enough that at maximum sea level (when there is no ice) they are part of the ocean.  But during an ice age (like now, we have some ice but not a lot), sea level falls enough that inland seas become independent bodies of water.

Lake Superior is 600' above present sea level, Lake Ontario is 246'.  Lake Bonneville was a salt lake with a shore at 5100'.  Once upon 17,000 years ago, [it burst through Red Rock Pass and flooded the Snake](_URL_0_); it's now Great Salt Lake, elevation 1200'.  

Seas are places like the Dead Sea is at −1,401', Caspian Sea −92' and Persian Gulf (currently part of the ocean).

Question: What goes on at a landfill aside from just burying the trash?
Answer: Depending on the kind of operation, you might get recycling/sorting operations, to divert metal and other non-degradables from the heap. There are trash burning operations, where it is used to fuel powerplants, but this is fairly uncommon.

Otherwise, you don't really bury the trash, except under more trash, until the end, when it'll be capped over with dirt and plastic, then eventually made into something really counterintuitive like a public park.

Question: If lightning is very short, how does it create a long continuous sound as thunder?
Answer: In addition to what others have said, while the *event* of lightning can be very short, the actual bolt itself, can be several miles in length. 

While this distance is pretty insignificant in terms of the speed of light, it *is* significant in terms of the speed of sound. So not only do you have multiple reverberations, and echos off the surrounding landscape, but additionally, the initial sound does not reach you all at the same time.

Question: Why does my air mattress always go flat after I use it?
Answer: You know when you lay on your arm too long and you get that 'pins and needles' feeling? That's not just a feeling. Your body hair really turns to pins and needles.

Now, in a regular polyester-fill mattress, this is no problem. But in an air mattress, you compromise the integrity of the mattress over time.

This is why water beds are never as cool as you think they are.

Question: What are the sparks for? Space Shuttle Launch
Answer: From NASA website: the sparks are used to burn up any hydrogen that may have been leaked from the engines/tanks. If they didn't do this, there was a chance that a pocket of leaked hydrogen would blow up when the engines started.

Question: Does space go on forever or is there an end?
Answer: Current models suggest that space is infinite in extent, and that the universe essentially goes forever in any direction. The most popular model is called the [Friedmann–Lemaître–Robertson–Walker (FLRW) ](_URL_0_) model, which suggests that the universe is infinite and flat, based largely upon the data that the universe appears isotropic and homogeneous in all directions. 

What this essentially means is it is thought to have no boundaries/edges, and parallel lines can go through space indefinitely and will never cross (space doesn't have a curvature).

However, there as of yet does not exist an experiment that can conclusively prove this to be the case. But it is consistent with our current measurements.

Question: Why do we have so little control over our bodies?
Answer: You evolved from creatures that developed random solutions to problems that may or may not have actually been good solutions. All that mattered for the solution to become prevalent was wether or not it made the creature more likely to reproduce. You will notice that cancer is very rare among individuals who are younger than 60. It just so happens that people are also unlikely to be able to reproduce at that age as well. Because of this, it is very difficult for the evolutionary process to pressure organisms to develop traits that benefit them after they can no longer reproduce. This is called selection shadow. 

Essentially, if it is not helping you reproduce, there is less pressure to adapt the trait. Cancer and most conditions which kill us are rare when we are young, therefore our susceptibility to them in our older age does not negatively impact our ability to reproduce when we still can. Evolution is more concerned with how many times you can reproduce than how long you will live. We do happen to care more about how long we can live though. We also have evolved the ability to develop genetic engineering and can maybe one day absolve ourselves of our mortality. Maybe that's kind of a freakish demonstration of extended phenotype?

Question: Why is restoring a painting acceptable/preferred?
Answer: There's still some debate over what is and isn't preferred when restoring something. With some antiques people insists that the patina of dirt is important. With some art people insist that any parts replaced should be done so that they give the impression of the original while clearly being different. But in some cases people feel that it's important to be able to experience the original.

The general rules are:

* Make any change reversible
* Don't do anything that would damage the original
* Don't invent things or fill in gaps unless you are sure what was there originally

Restoring a painting might involve:

* Attaching the painting to a second backing to fix and rips in the canvas from and to stop new ones from appearing
* Removing the existing dirt
* Applying a glue to secure any loose flecks of paint, or possibly filler to larger cracks
* Examining the paint flecks in detail to figure out what the original looked like
* Repainting the damaged sections carefully to match the colour, shine, and brush stroke direction (this is generally done with a tiny brush and a light watercolour paint)
* Mounting the painting in a new, or vintage, or restored frame

The glue and paint are always water based so they can be easily removed later if necessary. Also everything that touches the painting is selected so that it won't react with the painting (distilled water, canvas with a neutral pH, fish glues, etc.)

Question: why listening to classical music is the most beneficial compared to other genres of music
Answer: Contrary to popular belief it doesn't make babies into geniuses, however [music in general effects brain chemistry and can be beneficial to you.](_URL_0_)

Question: How can an object get partially into something and then not be able to get back out? e.g. getting stuck between railings
Answer: shape and compression. a cone or arrow shape could compress a bit and be pushed through but it would present a hard edge and would be difficult or impossible to pull through. 

Think of [these things](_URL_0_) you can push them in but you can't pull them out without manually compressing them due to their shape.

Question: If staring at screens for long periods of time doesn't cause nearsightedness (myopia), why has myopia increased from 10% to 41% of the US population in the last 30 years?
Answer: It’s not staring at screens that causes it, but a lack of exposure to sunlight and of staring into the mid-distance.

So if you spend a lot of your time staring at a screen but still get/look outside for an hour or two every day, your eyes get the full spectrum exposure and exercise they need.

Not much different than physical fitness really.

Question: Richter magnitude scale
Answer: It's a logarithmic scale measuring the energy released by an earthquake.  Starts at 0, but is technically openended (thankfully, we've never had a 10.0 or higher).  Each increase in the scale number indicates a 10x increase in the amount of energy released by the quake.  A 5.0 is 10 times stronger than a 4.0.  A 6.0 is 10 times stronger than the 5.0.

Question: Time share scams
Answer: The basic idea is that instead of buying one vacation property that you only use for a week a year, you can split the cost of the house with 51 other people and SHARE the house in different TIME slices.  This is fine in theory, but there are a number of problems with this.  For one, you're probably not going to get assigned a week you would actually want to go on vacation.  The prime weeks in July and June get snatched up almost immediately leaving you with time in March or October.  There's also almost no resale value for timeshares which is one of the ways people justify high property costs.  And that's not even touching on the general shadiness of people who sell timeshares who love their high pressure sales techniques and straight up lying about the cost and fees involved.

Question: ; Why did Blackberries stop being popular?
Answer: Blackberry was focused on the business market. Originally it was only a business that could justify the expense of a smart phone so the apps were focused on the concerns of businesses. Apple came along and decided that hardware prices have come down enough that justified a consumer level smart phone. Apple focused on the general public and their phones were successful. Very successful. 

Blackberry stuck with the idea that there were going to be 2 markets, a business market and a general consumer market because business contract are very lucrative. The problem is that many business discovered that an Iphone more than met their needs and they switched. It's been very hard for Blackberry to switch gears and it's been a slow decline ever since.

Question: Why do children get leukemia more frequently than other types of cancers?
Answer: Most cancers are due in part to some external source, such as radiation (including from the sun) or carcinogenic compounds. Exposure to these carcinogens has a chance of producing mutated cells which are cancerous. Since exposure to some extent is unavoidable, it's simple mathematics that the longer you live, the more often you are exposed and the more likely you are to develop a form of cancer. Additionally, many cancers take some time before they develop into a medical problem. For the most part, it is unlikely that a child has lived long enough to develop cancer.

Leukemia is a cancer that is particularly influenced by hereditary factors, and is also fast-acting compared to certain other cancers. Hence it is both more likely to begin at a young age and to develop into a medical problem (which leads to diagnosis) while the person is still young, compared to other cancers.

But leukemia does not uniquely affect children; most cases of leukemia are in adults. It is just that children are comparatively less likely to have other cancers.

Question: Why is there hierarchy in our society?
Answer: Humans cannot exist alone. An alone primate is a dead primate. So, in pre-history, we lived in groups, whom we were mostly related to genetically, and went about obtaining resources required for caloric intake (eating food). Young men usually serves as the warriors and hunters (to prove their worth to the tribe), and in most tribal societies, children and women did the rest. The old and sick were sometimes left to die.

Eventually, we get better and better with doing this (think changing from picking berries to basic agriculture) so that more and more people are involved into the group, making it so that some of the people inside of the group don't just hunt or gather or farm, instead they can make decisions, provide religious roles, arbitrate disputes, and provide leadership. 

A lot of times these leaders **edit- not necessarily _leaders_ per se** were older members that were useful. Old men who could arbitrate disputes and lead. Old women who knew certain skills.

This also goes into decision-making. The group needs a decisive voice to make decisions. Thoughts of "this outsider is bad, we should kill him," or "this outsider will be helpful, let's take him in." Are important decisions that still come up today. Think liberals and conservatives on the matter of refugees.

The above bits bring up some interesting points - Maybe our willingness to follow the authority of a police officer has something to do with our instinct to listen to the grandfathers in our group from pre-history? Maybe young men are still willing to fight in war because they still want to prove something to the "tribe?" And maybe our loyalty to our nations have something to do with loyalty to the group of people who were related to us?

Anyway, tl;dr people generally need leaders and orders to function well, so that's why we need leaders and a hierarchy.

Question: Why doesnt Harry destroy the third deathly hallow, the invisibility cloak?
Answer: He destroyed the stone because it drove people crazy, he destroyed the wand because it was used for harming others.  The invisibility cloak didn't really cause any harms, and so he didn't see any reason to destroy it.

That being said, in the books he didn't destroy the elder wand, he placed it in Dumbledore's tomb, and when harry died a natural death the wands power would be broken.

He also didn't really destroy the stone, he just dropped it in the woods to be lost forever, and it seems like that's what happened.

Question: Why drug dealers would agree to be on those VICE shows
Answer: Journalistic integrity has existed throughout the centuries, protecting sources to get to the truth. Vice is offering anonymity to get the story.

Ego is what likely keeps the dealers willing to tell their story in disguise just to be on television. I imagine it appeals to the rush of the drug dealer lifestyle some people who thrive in that community come to expect and enjoy on some level.

Question: Hangovers are caused, in large part, be the diuretic effect of alcohol. Will eating salty foods (which, obviously, cause water retention) counteract the loss of fluids and reduce any hangover effects?
Answer: Yes, the extra salt will help you retain water in your system so you don't piss it all away (literally). This is why traditional pub food includes nuts, pretzels and pickles.    
  
  
However, don't forget that you also need to drink more water than you want to.  Too much salt and not enough water intake can make you feel just as dehydrated, if not moreso. And no, the ice in your scotch does not count as drinking water.

Edit cuz I wrote this shit out 

Follow up in case you want to talk about this and not sound like a barbarian.  
  
  
The component in salt that makes it important is sodium, this along with potassium are called electrolytes.  They are the two primary chemicals that allow your neurons (type of cell in your body) to send signals to each other to do things like move muscles, keep your heart beating, regulate temperature, etc.  This is why you need sodium, it is vital to literally everything your body does so when you run out, you've got a problem.  
  
  
The next chemical we are talking about today is water.  This makes up 60-80 percent of your body, it makes up the physical structure of your cells which will literally implode if you put them in a hypertonic (salty) liquid.  Why do I bring this up? You need water, if you feel bad, drink some water before considering anything else.  Now, if you have been munching down on salted nuts and pretzels, all of that sodium basically pulls water to itself because of osmotic pressure.  Osmosis is very simple, but most people (American's at least) were taught it in a way that makes it sound more complicated than it is. Mention Osmotic pressure and electrolytes and your barbarian friends will rename you Eisenburg (because being barbarians they think Einstein and Heisenberg are the same dude.).   
  
Now for the real sciency part; so alcohol makes you dehydrated.  WTF, why does it do that? Yeah well theres these special neurons called chemoreceptors and once alcohol gets into the bloodstream, they signal to your brain and kidneys to let them know the livers about to get hit.  This activates the renin-angiotensin system.  Say it again REN-IN AN-GEE-OH-TEN-SIN.  basically these two hormones, aldosterone and angiotensin control how your body holds or releases sodium. They do this because, like I said earlier, sodium attracts water. Who cares about that? well you do cuz the amount of water in your bloodstream controls the pressure.  That pressure goes too high and you'll feel like shit (real high and maybe a stroke or something), too low and you pass out.  Wow, kinda got off topic there. . . 
  
  
So, memorize this rant and next time you're at the bar, use a cheap pick up line and just go straight into this rant, preferably with a Tennessee drawl and,  um, I don't really know, but try it out bro.

Question: Why do small flies congregate in small swarms in the same place night after night during spring/summer?
Answer: They are banging.

That is pretty much it. Flies swarm in order to mate, so you are basically running through a night club where everyone is DTF.

Question: Why is travel so exhausting?
Answer: Travel in a vehicle is mentally stimulating. You are surrounded by noises and by other people. And it is slightly stressful because you have fairly little control over what is happening -- either because you're a passenger or because you're in traffic. (Note how much *less* tiring it is to travel if you're the driver and you're out on the open road.)


Also, often you were in a hurry just before boarding the vehicle, so you enter stressed. And once on board, you are unable to exercise, which is a great stress reliever.

Question: The difference between hospice death and doctor assisted suicide
Answer: Hospice does not "overdose" a patient. They will provide patients with the means for comfort, whether through medication, repositioning, mouth care, etc. Medications like Morphine may suppress respiratory effort if administered irresponsibly, but the goal is comfort, not death. Hospice will often follow a patient for an extended period of time. 

Physician assisted suicide is a one time event, and the goal is death. 

Edit: Opioids, benzodiazepines, etc. prescribed in the context of hospice care are not administered with the intent of bringing the patient closer to death. The goal is comfort. 

Edit: I don't claim any authority on this subject. I am a nurse in grad school with hospice experience. I'm sure there are far better answers than mine. It's a very heavy, very nuanced topic and difficult to summarily describe in an ELI5 posting. Suffice it to say, hospice follows and provides comfort without prolonging life. Physician assisted suicide ends life to avoid future suffering. 

Edit: Hopefully my last edit. Removed "explicitly."

Question: Linking verbs, object, complement
Answer: Most verbs describe an action; for example, "write" describes the action of setting words down on paper.

In a simple sentence like "Bill wrote a letter," there are three main parts:

1. *Bill* is the subject: he is the thing or (in this case) person doing the action;
2. *wrote* is the verb: it describes the action;
3. *a letter* is the object (or, more exactly, the direct object): it is the thing that is having the action done to it.

In English, it's easy to see which is the subject and which is the object: the subject usually comes before the verb, the object usually comes after the verb. In fact, English is an example of an "SVO language" for this reason.

Remember: the subject does the action; the object has the action done to it. For example:

* Jane likes hamburgers.
* We saw the movie.
* They have done their homework.

You don't always have to have an object, by the way. For example:

* I'm sleeping.
* She puked.
* He might faint.

Linking verbs are different. They don't describe actions at all: instead, they signal that the sentence is saying something about the subject. The subject is still before the verb; but *after* the verb is more information about the subject: the verb links the two things.

The most common linking verb is "to be". For example, "I am an Englishman" gives you some information about me -- it doesn't say anything about what I am *doing*. There's no action here: you can't say that the Englishman is "being been" by me. The verb "to be" simply links "I" and "an Englishman" with a big equals sign: "I = an Englishman."

Because there's no action, it doesn't make any sense to talk about an "object". Remember we said that the object is having the action done to it -- but that's not the case here, so we can't call it an object. Instead, we call it a "complement".

Other linking words include "seem" and "become":

* That seems legit.
* It became awkward.

How can we tell those are linking verbs? There's a test for that: if we simply replace the verb with the correct form of "to be", if it still makes sense, it's a linking verb:

* That is legit.
* It was awkward.

Compare that with:

* Jane likes hamburgers. - >  Jane is hamburgers.

That makes no sense at all: "like" is *not* a linking verb.

There are several verbs that are sometimes action verbs and sometimes linking verbs. An example is "taste":

* That tastes good. - >  That is good.
* He tasted the vodka. - >  He was the vodka.

We can see that in the first sentence, "taste" is a linking verb because it describes the subject; in the second sentence, it's an action verb that describes the act of taking a sip and evaluating its flavour.

Similarly, "smell":

* That smells disgusting. - >  That is disgusting. (linking verb)
* Wake up and smell the coffee. - >  Wake up and be the coffee. (action verb)

Does this help?

Question: the expression "Clocks don't really measure time, they measure themselves."
Answer: Time exists and always has^ish and always will^mostly. It is not a construct of man but rather a universal condition. Before the clock was invented we had the sundial, which measured the movement of the sun accross the sky, not really time. When clocks were invented the attempted to keep pace with time but had to be reset every day at noon or else they would be off of local time. As clocks got better they were able to keep up with fewer errors, but we're not perfect. Now official time is kept by measuring the vibrations of a cesium atom, and a certain number of vibrations is defined as a second. So the expression is that clocks only measure different physical phenomena the we define as time, either the sun or vibrations, not time itself. A clock is only as good as its ability to keep up with time, and since most commercial clocks have errors they aren't at true time so they only measure them selves.

Question: What are birthmarks? What causes them?
Answer: It depends on the type of birthmark.

Something like a port wine stain:

_URL_0_

is actually an overgrowth of blood vessels that grow too much, and too close to the surface of the skin where they shouldn't be.

Something like a congenital nevus/giant mole:

_URL_1_

is an overgrowth of melanocytes, which are the cells in your skin that make melanin, which is a pigment that gives your skin its darker color.

Question: How come when you involuntarily blink you never notice, but when you realize and start blinking intentionally it's all you notice
Answer: Well... because you're thinking about it.

Same thing with the nose, it's always there but your brain ignores it. Once you realize this then it is noticeable.

Question: Explain TRULY like I'm 5: What a default gateway and subnet mask is.
Answer: The "TRULY" has nothing to do in your question.  A 5 year old does not need to be concerned with technical specifications of computer networks, so an answer such as "it's some of the stuff that computers use to talk to each other" would be appropriate for a 5 year old but probably wouldn't satisfy you.

So, like you're NOT TRULY a 5 year old, but still hopefully simplified:

All the addresses in a network will start with the same part of the IP, the same prefix.  For example you can have a network where the IPs start with _URL_3_.  The way to tell your network the length of the prefix is with the **network mask**.  In this case the network mask would be 255.255.0.0 to indicate that the first two numbers cannot vary but the last two can.

To get a bit more technical, this is done in binary.  If you have an IP like 192.168.5.43, in binary that is 11000000.10101000.00000101.00101011.  If your mask is 255.255.0.0, in binary that is 11111111.11111111.00000000.00000000 (a mask is always a series of 1 on the left and a series of 0 on the right.  It's only the place where the ones become zeroes that is important).  Put them on top of each other and you have this:

    11000000.10101000.00000101.00101011
    11111111.11111111.00000000.00000000

The mask (second line) tells you that, wherever there is a 1, that's part of the prefix of your network, and wherever there is a 0, that's the address of a specific computer on this network.

Note that the mask can change from 1's to 0's in the middle of one of the four numbers, like this: 11111111.11111111.11110000.00000000.  It makes it a little trickier, but I can explain that if you ask.  Let's keep it simple for this explanation, and only deal with 255 or 0 in masks.

**A subnet** is when you divide a network into several sub networks.  Let's take the network above (_URL_3_) and say we want to split it by office floor or something: _URL_0_ for the first floor, _URL_1_ for the second floor, etc.  Each of these is a subnet.

**A subnet mask** is like a network mask, but for a subnet.  So in the example above, the subnet mask for each floor is 255.255.255.0 because now only the last number can change, the first three are the prefix of that subnet.

**A default gateway** is the IP address of the router that will deal with IP's that are outside of a particular network.  It is linked to the concept explained above, as you will see.

So, back to our building.  Remember that the subnet mask is 255.255.255.0 for each floor.  Let's say the default gateway for the second floor's subnet is 192.168.2.1.  For the whole building network, the mask is 255.255.0.0 and we'll set the default gateway to 192.168.0.1.

Now we have a specific machine on the second floor: 192.168.2.14.  

* If this machine sends a message to 192.168.2.10, by applying the subnet mask you know you're in the same network, and the message will be sent directly to that address.

* If this machine sends a message to 192.168.1.12 (a computer on the first floor), by applying the subnet mask you know you are *not* in the same network, as you'd expect a 2 in third place.  So you can't send it directly to the destination.  What you do instead is send it to the default gateway of your network: 192.168.2.1.  This gateway is also part of the whole building network.  By applying the network mask of the whole building (255.255.0.0) we know the destination IP is in that network, and we can send the message on its merry way to the subnetwork on the first floor.

* If the source machine sends a message to 173.194.34.0 (_URL_2_), by applying the subnet mask, we know we are not in the right network, so we send the message to the default gateway: 192.168.2.1.  That gateway will apply the network mask for the whole building, and will know we are still not in the right network, so it will forward the message to the default gateway for the whole network: 192.168.0.1.  This default gateway will recognize the address as an internet address and sends it to the internet connection on its way to the Google address.

**tl;dr:** A subnet mask is a way to say what part of an IP is the prefix of the subnet.  A default gateway is a machine that deals with all IPs that are outside of the range of the network or subnet.

Question: Is it normal for a person to regularly fantasize about killing people? What causes it?
Answer: I'm not sure "fantasise" is the right word here, but many people randomly daydream about doing bad things and about bad things happening so that your mind subconciously checks that it is bad and should be avoided. There was a recent ELI5 about it which I will link if I find.

If you do mean "fantasise" as in killing people is something you seriously desire, then you might have a problem. I'm not an expert, but there's a line somewhere between "it would be funny if threw that guy out the window in my head" and "I truly want to kill everyone around me with a serrated knife and bathe in their blood". If your thoughts are genuinely aggressive, then it might not be normal.

Question: Why are people saying that the Ebola Virus is not as transmittable as suggested?
Answer: ~~A lot of diseases can survive in the air or on surfaces for long periods of time.~~

~~Ebola can't.  Unless you directly get some of an infected person's bodily fluids inside you, you're extremely unlikely to contract it.~~

~~So while Ebola is super deadly, it's not really all that contagious, when compared to most other viruses we worry about.~~

It would appear I'm wrong about this (thanks /u/zombieJesus27); Ebola actually *can* survive on surfaces.  

Upon further reading though, I still think zombieJesus may have slightly overstated his case.  Yes, it's true that Ebola doesn't insta-die when you take it outside of the body (although it still cannot survive in air), but it *is* meaningfully less virulent than the sort of virus we'd be really worried about spreading like crazy through a sanitary first world country.

Bottom line: don't worry too much.  But also don't spread misinformation like I accidentally did earlier.

Question: What would happen to an object travelling at a great speed(ie: Hyperloop) in a vacuum if it were to suddenly enter the atmosphere?
Answer: You don't really need to wonder.... This is basically what happens to meteors and re-entering spacecraft.   Massive heat (from atmospheric compression, not friction) and the violent destruction of the object (unless it's designed to deal with this via a heat shield or something).

Question: Child Porn stipulations
Answer: I think, it's more illegal because no matter what, the child is a victim. There's no consent and they can't know better at that age. 

As weird and creepy as it is, a drawn nude child is fictional if it just comes from the mind. There's no real victim here, granted if it's not sketched from a previous seen picture of a child in those situations. 

That's my best guess and not a citable answer.

Question: Not trying to be racist, but why do the majority of countries have white, skinny and tall women as the beauty standard despite having very few people being actually like them?
Answer: A history of colonialism establishes cultural norms in places. 

In some places, there is some evidence that things like lighter skin were considered attractive due to that being a symbol of wealth (similar to fatness being a symbol of wealth and being able to afford food), but things like stereotypical European features (thin noses, blue eyes, blonde hair) were pushed as attractive due to colonialism.

Question: Why do americans love pickup trucks so much ?
Answer: Part of it, is that the US doesn't pay as much for fuel as many European/Scandinavian countries. On average, we pay about half of what you do for fuel. Therefore, having a utility vehicle that gets poor gas mileage is not as big of a luxury as you might think. 

Trucks are useful. Many of my relatives are tradesmen and use their vehicles to haul buidling materials and tools. Many people are avid hunters too. A large truck bed is ideal for putting a deer in. 

Also our public transit is dismal in many parts of our country. We heavily rely on our vehicles for basic tasks and transport. 



_URL_0_

Question: Why do reflections still have 'depth' so that our eyes have to focus on objects near and far, even though the reflective surface is flat?
Answer: Reflection is caused by light bouncing off of a surface. So you're not focusing on the surface itself, but on the things being reflected off that surface, which can be varying distances away.

Question: Why are some foods "acquired tastes" and how do people eventually like them?
Answer: For one thing, both our [sense of smell](_URL_2_) and our [taste buds change](_URL_3_) as we age. You are basically a lot more sensitive to strong tastes when you are young. So kids have 30,000 taste buds and often hate strong flavors like garlic. By the time you're an adult you have about a third that number and flavors like garlic are not as strong.

Interestingly, I remember reading an article that people build capsacin tolerance (the oil in chilis) with repeated exposure. But apparently [that's wrong](_URL_0_). People who like hot foods just like the pain. There hasn't been a lot of research on it. They think it comes down to culture and personality.

But none of that accounts for people just getting used to something nasty like [natto](_URL_1_). I don't know if there's an answer to that.

Question: Claiming tips from deliveries at work.
Answer: You have to claim ALL income, regardless of source (tips, wages, etc) for tax purposes.  You should try to claim as little as possible so that you are not taxed on that additional income, its technically illegal to do so, but its standard practice to claim little (or no) tips as income in many service jobs.

Question: Why do broken noses bleed so much?
Answer: Our noses serve to humidify the air we breathe before it reaches our lower airways. In order to do this, structures called turbinates project from the side walls of the nasal cavity to increase the surface area for which the air will come into contact. The walls of the cavity are extremely vascular in order to transfer heat and liquid to the air to humidify it. Being that they are very vascular you can imagine that a broken nose will sever many vessels and cause a large bleed. 

There is another advantage to the nose being very vascular and that is medication is often delivered in the nasal cavity because it reaches the blood stream quickly. The medication crosses into the vessels in the nose and within seconds it will be in the systemic circulation.

Question: Why is abortion so heavily regulated by the government?
Answer: Many people believe that abortion is morally equivalent to murder, or at least a form of murder.

As a result, they advocate policies that they believe will reduce the number of these acts or punish the people who conduct them. 

The reason it seems like there is so much government involvement is because a large number of people disagree with that sentiment. This isn't the case with things like, say, murder or even the use of hard drugs. As a result there are far more areas where the groups come into conflict when it comes to policy, so you see it more.

Question: How do they accurately measure the movement of a mountain? Everest moved 3cm. after the earthquake. Relative to what?
Answer: With topographical maps, GPS positioning, and satellite imagery; you can easily compare and contrast what the data says today with what it said with previous bits of data years ago.

Question: Lets say the President tries to push his big red button, what happens next?
Answer: If anything in your question happened, it would create a constitutional crisis, so there's now way to predict how it would shake out, but here's what we do know.

The president is the only person authorized to use nuclear weapons, and do so any any time for any reason, but this order must be seconded by the Secretary of Defense (SECDEF). The SECDEF could refuse to sign off, but the president could then fire him or her on the spot and direct the deputy SECDEF, who would then be the acting SECDEF, to sign off. If the deputy SECDEF refused, the President could theoretically fire him or her as well, and continue on down the line until he found someone willing to sign off. 

Assuming the SECDEF signs off, the order then gets passed on by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to the missile silos, submarines, and airbases. Now anyone in this chain (the silo crews, submarine crews, bomber pilots...etc) could refuse to carry out this order, but they can all be immediately replaced with someone who will. Refusing to carry out lawful orders is a huge crime, but whether those orders are lawful or not would have to be decided later. If there's a mass refusal to carry out orders, there's no telling if anyone would face charges or not.

So what happens if there's a mass refusal to carry out orders? Again, this would be a constitutional crisis of unprecedented scale, so it's hard to say. All bets are probably off, but the most likely scenario is that the Vice President and the cabinet would avail themselves of section 4 of the 25th amendment which allows the VP and the majority of the cabinet to declare the president unfit for office and remove him from power temporarily, thus making the Vice President acting president.

Question: Both entropy and inertia (in physics).
Answer: Entropy: Your mom tells you to clean your room every day. She had to go on a business trip so you stopped cleaning your room this week. It starts getting messy and messier and finally looks like a storm blew through it. You stopped putting energy into cleaning your room so it became a mess. Entropy states that without putting energy into existence, existence has a tendency to move toward being less ordered, the same as it takes energy from you to keep your work clean.

Inertia: If you have a big rock, it takes a lot of work to push it. If it's rolling down a hill, it takes a lot of energy to stop it. Inertia means that something that's moving wants to keep moving, something that's at a stand-still wants to stay still.

Question: Drifting
Answer: Drifting came about as a reaction to loose surfaces on rallye circuits.  A rear wheel drive car would drift excessively so they started playing around with all wheel drive to get more traction.  When you're operating on loose surfaces it always seems more comforting to have your nose pointed where you want to go (might just be a universal human preference) so Rallye cars are still designed to drive with the rear end kicked out sideways. It's also worth noting that many rally cars give the driver the option to vary power to the front and rear wheels ( I think Ken Block's ebrake handle is really a transfer case bias selector) so they can apply more power to the rear when going in a straight line.  An F1 car should have a perfect 50/50 weight distribution and it relies on its glue like grip to the road to get it around corners.  Since drifting requires the rear wheels to slip, drifting an F1 car could be disastrous, once the rear wheels slipped, they would slip wildly out of control.

Don't forget, drifting is fun and it looks cool, which means its a great spectator sport.  You can try it yourself with a rear wheel drive car and a large gravel parking lot.

Question: Why is the task of investigating fraud/counterfeiting given to the Secret Service?
Answer: Because that was mainly why the were created in the beginning, see the [history of the Secret Service](_URL_0_)

 > 1865 - The Secret Service Division was created on July 5, 1865 in Washington, D.C., to suppress counterfeit currency. Chief William P. Wood was sworn in by Secretary of the Treasury Hugh McCulloch.

 > 1867 - Secret Service responsibilities were broadened to include "detecting persons perpetrating frauds against the government." This appropriation resulted in investigations into the Ku Klux Klan, non-conforming distillers, smugglers, mail robbers, land frauds, and a number of other infractions against the federal laws.

Question: Why is it almost impossible to balance on two wheels on a bike, but once you start moving forward it becomes so much easier?
Answer: Holy shit, ~~everyone at the top of this thread is wrong.~~

Balancing on a bike is **not not not** because of gyroscopic effects from the wheels!

It's from the centrifugal force (or really centripetal acceleration) of turning the wheel.

When you're going along on a bicycle and you start to tilt and fall to the left, you naturally turn the wheel to the left, at which point the bike needs to experience a centripetal acceleration inward into the turn.  That's coming from the ground, due to friction with the tires.  The ground pushes the bottom of your bike to the left, inward, and the rest of your bike rotates by exactly the right amount to correct your fall and continue you balancing on the two wheels.  It's like at a NASCAR race.  The reason those curved areas of the track curve upward is so that **gravity** can help out in the centripetal acceleration the car needs to undergo as it turns.  Obviously the opposite works when you fall to the right.

Now, this may strike you as difficult to get exactly right.  *You'd be correct*.  That's why we call it **LEARNING TO RIDE A BIKE**.  They're learning to correct their falling by turning into the fall.  That's what "riding a bike" really is.

All this nonsense is about gyroscopes is 99% bullshit and needs to stop.  You want to prove me wrong?  Here's an easy way:  Weld the handlebars of a bike to the frame, then try to ride it.  After you fall down twelve times it'll become clear the gyroscopic component keeping you upright is grossly inadequate and is NOT what's keeping you from falling down.  You want more proof?  Try turning the steering wheel around 180 degrees and trying to ride the bike.  It's a lot harder because it's contrary to *the way you learned to ride a bike*.

Here's here's some proof:

_URL_1_


_URL_0_

Question: Ambeint occlusion
Answer: Ambient occlusion tries to simulate the "dark corners" of a scene.
When you have a concave feature - meaning for example the corner of a room, or a small crack - the geometry shadows itself: light can enter the corner or crack only from a small angle.

This can be simulated with ray-tracing or approximated by simple [screen-space procedures](_URL_0_), which are mainly used in games.

It gives a more "realistic" lighting when compared to simple, local illumination, but without the huge computational overhead of full, global illumination, which takes into account interreflections and shadowing between all objects of a scene.

Question: why are people always under an illusion that they are wasting their life ?
Answer: Humanity's ability to get itself to a position where all it's physical needs are satisfied and still want more is, imo, what made us the dominant species of the planet. That dissatisfaction keeps us reaching. It's sitting in a dry cave with a bellyful of meat and saying "okay but now what".

Question: What is Net Neutrality and why is it so important?
Answer: Net neutrality is the concept that an Internet Service Provider can't discriminate data you access via the internet. Its how the internet has worked for its entire existence so far. 

For example Netflix hurts Comcast’s cable business. So they clamp down and make all streaming of netflix videos unwatchable for their customers. This is not even hypothetical both Comcast and Verizon did this and Netflix had to pay them to stop.

It could also manifest in “fast lanes” basically the service would limit speeds on your most frequently used websites let's say Facebook and Google and would ask you to pay them more to make those sites work faster for you. 

If those both sound super shady and wrong than you are pro Net Neutrality. Now normally I would give you the other side but there is none. Net Neutrality is an utterly one sided topic and the only reason people are again it is because they stand to make money by slowing speeds and limiting certain kinds of data.

Question: How does an X-Ray machine work?
Answer: It works like a camera. An X-ray "light" shines on the object and onto a digital sensor that reacts to X-rays just like a digital camera reacts to light. X-rays go through most things so you put the object between the X-Ray source and the sensor.

Question: Why is it when you see pictures of fashion models on the runway, they're wearing something nobody in there right mind would wear?
Answer: Think of it more as a walking art installation. Instead of a crazy ass sculpture or a painting, it's a person walking around all decorated and shit.

Question: Why can little kids squat on their haunches, but most adults cant?
Answer: Practice.  Adults who regularly do it can still do it well into their older years.  In fact, squatting on the haunches is a pretty common sitting style around the world.

Wear and tear does eventually take its toll, but for most people it's atrophy and loss of flexibility due to inactivity that's playing the larger role.

Question: When boiling a pot of water for cooking, why should you start with cold water instead of hot?
Answer: Cold water is less likely to contain lead from pipes and legionella bacteria from your hot water heater. Hot water boils faster, though( I'm not sure how this is a myth other than in some conditions hot water freezes faster than cold, and so people think the opposite could be true)

Question: why does guacamole last longer when you keep the avocado seed in the guacamole?
Answer: I've never heard of that, but it sounds like a folk tale, and not fact. Do you have some link which indicates that this is true, and not just something you've heard before? 

_URL_0_

 > So how does leaving the pits in the bowl mitigate this process? It is not because the pits exude an ineffable, protective aura that reminds the guacamole where it came from, or because they emit chemicals that counteract the oxidation process. As anyone who’s tried the method can attest, the pits are really effective at preventing browning only on the part of the guacamole’s surface they touch.

 > The pit protects the guac simply because it shields a portion of the dip’s surface from exposure to air. You'd be just as well off plopping a few hardboiled eggs or some golf balls or an iPhone into your guacamole.

 > Recommending that someone leave the pits in a bowl of guacamole to prevent browning is a bit like recommending that people cover their heads tightly with their hands to prevent their hair from getting wet in a rainstorm. It would help, but not as much as an umbrella. For guacamole, the best umbrella seems to be plastic wrap tamped down snugly to the surface of the dip, to limit as much oxygen exposure as possible.

 > If you prefer to attack the enzyme instead of the air, adding lemon or lime juice – ingredients many guacamole recipes already call for – also will delay browning. The citrus fruits’ relatively high acidity, along with their natural antioxidants and high vitamin C content, helps handicap PPO-driven oxidation.

 > Better yet, use lemon juice, avocado pits and plastic wrap. Or just eat it really quickly.

Question: How can we still see thumbnails for images that are no longer available?
Answer: Say you want to view 1 reddit page with 10 thumbnails from imgur on it. To create the thumbnails, you need to load the images from imgur first, then resize/crop accordingly. 

Reddit can go to imgur every time someone accesses that 1 page. Wait for the 10 imgur links to load, do the cropping process and then show them to you. But that takes a lot of time and mostly depends on imgur and not reddit.

Instead, when someone posts the links, Reddit generates its own set of 10 images *once* and then shows you those every time. 

If the imgur links are deleted, the reddit thumbnails still remain.

Question: Why is it important to preserve traditions?
Answer: There are actually a few potential answers to this question.     
    
Also, to give a more complete answer. It should be noted that the idea that it's important is a *claim* and not necessarily true at all.   
  
So the answer will depend on who is making the claim, and why the claim is being made. 
   
Firstly the question could mean two things.   
It could mean to ask why it's important to not let traditions die.  
Or it could mean to ask why it's viewed as important to continue doing things the way your ancestors have.    
   
The two questions have different answers obviously.   
If it's the first question then the answer would be that when cultural knowledge dies there is unique human knowledge lost. It would generally be considered preferable to always *increase* knowledge. So a loss would be a bad thing.  
   
If you mean to ask the second question, then the answer is not so simple.   
But there are at least a couple of easy answers to give to the question. Albeit they are simplistic and maybe not too satisfying.   
  
First is that it's worked in the past. Kind of an "If it aint broke..." kind of idea. Which is an answer that at least makes a little sense, but I really don't think it's the answer.    
    
Second is that it preserves a person's group cohesion. Be it at the level of family tradition or nations. Much of living in groups involves defining that group as compared to different groups. Traditions help to do that.     
    
Lastly, and maybe more to the point. The people who want the traditions preserved are usually the people who have been living them the longest. It's the older generations. That's partly habit. It partly because older people tend to be a lot more conservative    
   
It's also partly that a rejection of their traditions is a sign that their life is waning and their way of life antiquated.    
    
So there are really a lot of things going on there.   
One really needs to look at the person who is claiming that it *is* important to get a good idea of what's really happening in that claim.

Question: Why do things take "4-6 weeks" to ship?
Answer: This is not always the case, but especially with infomercial trinkets, it's not uncommon for the products you're buying not to even be manufactured yet. By allowing long lead times, the seller can gauge response and manufacture just enough to meet demand.

Question: how are people able to track hackers ie: where they are, who they are, etc
Answer: This is part of digital forensics and is kind of like asking 'how do you know that this person murdered this other person without actually witnessing it?'.

You can narrow hacking down to 

1) Physical access - someone having access to the machine in order to clone the data to another device or crack it at the location

2) Remote access - someone able to crack into a device via logging in from another location.  The password can be cracked by acting as a man-in-the-middle (think wiretapping) or hash-cracking, exploits, 0-days (think lock picking)

3) Exploiting bad code - bad sanitization (_URL_0_)

The way to track these people is by taking advantage of how they use the exploits and either de-anonymizing them via some method (comparing ISP logs with VPNs / other servers) or traditional methods (looking for motives and narrowing people down).  If it is just one person this could be pretty hard to do, especially if there is no real motive except curiosity or mischief.  If it is something bigger, the more people are involved, then the greater the chance you find someone who made a mistake, and the greater chance you catch someone who will talk (for a deal).

Question: Why can programs on my computer be completely unresponsive but pressing control+alt+delete is always instant?
Answer: This is because the program is stuck in some sort of loop, so sending commands to the program does not work.

Ctrl+alt+del sends an interrupt, which means that it tells windows to drop everything it's doing. Next windows will show the ctrl alt del menu.  
This (generally) will not stop the program from being in the loop (ie it won't start working just because you pressed ctrl alt del) but it stops the computer from executing the program. Next you can just kill the task, which means that windows stops whatever the program was doing and closes the program. Downside is that you won't be able to save whatever was happening at that point (but since the program wasn't responding, that's no big deal).

Question: How did recording on wax cylinders in the early Phonograph days work?
Answer: Recording on wax cylinders required a two needle machine, not the single needle player that most people had at home. The recording mechanism had a clockwork system to move the stylus along the cylinder in a long spiral.  This could be played or used to make a master.  To make a master, gold vapor was plated into the groves to make a reverse master.  The brown wax cylinders people played were molded from this master.

Question: How come you can "feel" when someone is watching you?
Answer: You can't actually tell other than by looking at where other people are looking. Humans are social animals and we look around quite a bit to check where others are looking without really noticing. Only when we detect someone looking our way do we take note, sometimes thinking we somehow knew we were being observed. But when tested under controlled conditions that simply isn't true.

Question: What makes great paintings great?
Answer: To me, a great work of art is more than just something I perceive with my eyes. It is often thought provoking, and has the personality and psychology of the artist captured within it. 

These popular paintings are "simply" (obviously you can read way more into them, but for this example I'll leave it like this) milestones for their eras. Such as Ansel Adams and the f/64 group or Diane Airbus with their work in photojournalism. 

You mentioned impressionism, looking at artists like Manet/Monet you can see the slow shift from realism in painting (realistic, almost photographic image-like paintings) to impressionism (which captures the essence of the subject rather than completely accurate details). 

If you ever have the chance to see impressionist paintings in person I suggest you go. The paintings of Monet are actually sculpture-like because the paint is so thick on the canvas. The art leaves an "impression" on the viewer.

Question: What determines how much spicy food someone can handle? Is it genetic?
Answer: You can build up a tolerance.  Also helps if you were raised on it.  I imagine genetics plays a part, too.

Plants evolved capsaicin because they needed their seeds spread far.  Small mammals, lime mice, can't stand the spice and avoid it.  However, birds don't feel the capsaicin and can eat and spread the seeds far away.

Then humans came along and we loved it.  We took it and cultivated it all over the world.  I'd say both we and the peppers win.

Question: If there was a pill that contained all the nutrients, vitamins, energy etc., would you still need to eat?
Answer: Yes.  Because the calories you would need cannot be consumed in something as small as a pill.

Question: Do heat-seeking missiles ever accidentally lock onto the sun?
Answer: Usually, a heat-seeking missile has been programmed to change its trajectory based on various things, and so it can usually tell if it's detecting the sun (or, for example, infrared light from the sun scattered off of clouds) or if it's detecting its actual intended target.

Compared to a person or a vehicle, the sun outputs a very obvious signal in infrared, since it's pretty much always going to be the same level of infrared light and in the same shape, provided it isn't getting partially obscured by things.  If a missile simply ignores the brightest source of infrared light (or, if it's searching for super-heated jet engine outputs, ignores anything less bright than that) if it appears to be the size and intensity of the sun, it wouldn't be tricked by the sun.

Of course, it isn't always going to be perfect, and there are conditions where the missile will mistake various things for its target - clouds, heat from sandy ground, and so on.  Better and better technology and imaging techniques helps to mitigate this.  The most sophisticated heat-seeking missiles basically make an infrared image of the surroundings and analyze it.

Of course, even that isn't going to be perfect, yet.  That's why we use "identify the pictures that have signs in them!" as ways to prove you're not a robot - computers are pretty bad at correctly interpreting visual data.

Question: Liability of Gun Manufactureres
Answer: If a firearms manufacturer intentionally produced weapons that were easy to modify to be an illegal firearm, it would make sense to want to be able to hold them legally liable if their product was involved in a crime, and the gun was modified illegally.

 i.e. in the US civilian "assault rifles" are supposed to be single fire only. if a manufacturer of a particular assault rifle designed the gun in such a manner that any novice could convert it to fire full auto, that would be a problem. The company is absolutely morally liable if they know how easy it is to modify the weapons, and does nothing to prevent modification of future runs of the gun.

Now, why do people put up a fight about this? Making sure full auto assault rifles stay off the streets is a good thing. Continuing the full auto rifle example - Legally, please define "easy to modify" or "novice" for us, such that the specific intent of the legislation is realized, without it being abused to the point that its impossible to manufacture an assault rifle, or obscenely expensive to purchase due to the added costs of ensuring that it cannot be modified.

That gray area is a problem. Very, very, very few laws are ever written that do only what they were meant to do, with no potential for abuse of enforcement, or lack thereof because the law is so weak.

Still speaking hypothetically here: 

Ban assault weapons outright then! Why? It's been done before, and it showed there was zero correlation between violent crime and assault weapons. Ban box magazines! Please define box magazines - oh well anything roughly box in shape capable of holding more than x rounds. Excellent! we just banned handgun magazines too!

i could go on, but i think the point is there - its a phenomenally complicated issue, full of unintended consequences for all but the more careful of actions.

Question: What does a police officer have to do in order to receive a jail sentence?
Answer: No, if they were to do something undoubtedly criminal, they would receive jail time.

The thing is that most of the crimes that we see police committing are simply recklessness, negligence, excessive force, which are relatively minor things. Juries and Judges are more likely to let these go by with lower sentences, such as suspension or dismissal because things like police service are often seen as something which should allow punishment to be deducted.

There a hundred times where police have gone to prison, the only difference is that those police are generally involved with something more criminal than excessive force or as it's starting to be called "Police Douchebaggery"

Question: What is the technology behind 3d printers?
Answer: Yes, it works layer by layer. The printer consists of a printing head that can squirt molten plastic and can move freely through the printer. The software turns a 3D model into tiny little horizontal slices, and the printer then squirts the plastic into that shape, layer by layer. Each layer is built upon the one below it. [Perhaps a video will illustrate it the best?](_URL_0_) The model in the video is split into .1 mm layers (about a 256th of an inch) and therefore is very detailed.

Question: What happens if you don't agree to the new data policies the social networks keep telling you about in Europe?
Answer: If you don't agree, then according to their terms of service, you won't be allowed to continue using the service. But that clause is probably not enforceable in most jurisdictions.

However, after May 25th at the latest, social media websites with a presence inside the EU will, *by law*, be required to collect and process data according to the new rules. That will be required of them whether you consent or not. It's only the fact that this in some cases will mean changes to the site's policies and terms that mean they will want you to agree to them.

How individual sites deal with that is up to them. It might be possible that, for example, after 25th May, one of these sites might simply block you by putting up a pop-up that won't go away again until you press the "I agree" button.

The idea is that the new regulations give you more control over how the information you supply about yourself is used, more transparency, and more rights to privacy. In theory, it should be easier for you to stop other people doxxing you, for example.

Whether it will make any meaningful difference in actual fact remains to be seen.

Question: how does bail work with bailbondsmen and why does this exist?
Answer: First of all, let me explain the concept of bail.

Bail is an extremely old way of making sure that people show up for their trials without having to hold them in jail until the trial. To make sure you don't run (since, the logic goes, a guilty person would probably run before his trial), you have to pay a considerable sum of money. You get the money back if you show up at your trial. You don't get it back if you don't show up, or if you commit more crimes. This system was obviously very important in the days before photo IDs and modern record-keeping, and it is still important today.

But what if you don't have the money to pay your bail? Enter the bail bondsman. They agree to pay your bail for you, at the cost of a non-refundable percentage of the bail. If they didn't provide this service, you would just have to sit in jail until your trial, assuming you had no friends or family to bail you out.

If you don't show up to your trial, the bondsman loses the bail money, *unless* he can find you and bring you back to court. This gives him a financial incentive to make sure his customers don't flee. If they do, he can hire a bounty hunter (in most states), whose job is to track them down and arrest them, taking them back to face trial.

Question: What would be the bodily effects of taking a pill giving you 17 times the amount of daily Vitamin C for a year do to your body?
Answer: Vitamin C is water soluble, meaning that the body takes in whatever level of vitamin C it needs and flushes the rest out through the kidneys.  The body does not store Vitamin C, so any additional dose is removed.  The percentages of RDA appeals to the "more is better" and does nothing but create urine high in Vitamin C.

Question: Where does the items deleted in the Recycle Bin go?
Answer: They essentially just get marked for re-writing, meaning that now the computer can write over that space with whatever. So they aren't deleted until something is written over it. I could be wrong however, i pulled this out of my ass-brain.

Question: How do mobile phones transmit calls over the same bandwidth at the same time without interfering with each other and always finding the right reciever?
Answer: GSM doesnt use the same frequency for all communication, and not the same time. CDMA is a method that allows everyone to send at the same time and distinguish them.

Question: Why don't birds get cold in the wind?
Answer: Birds have insulating feathers called *down*.  They trap air close to the body so convection (moving air currents) can't pull heat away.  To get their feathers to do this, their muscles can make the feathers stand on end -- these are *literally* goose bumps.

By the time it gets warm, they have shed many of their insulating feathers due to molting, and what remains is kept tight against the skin, allowing for maximum cooling.

Question: How do airlines make a profit?
Answer: The short answer is that the airlines are _exceptionally_ good at price discrimination.

The longer answer is that not everyone pays the same price for the tickets they have.  This is very obvious when you think about business class vs. coach - the business class tickes are often  > $1,000 a seat for domestic flights and can be  > $10,000 for overseas flights.  

However, there is significant difference in the prices of coach seats too.  I fly for work every week and I promise that I pay _much_ more for my tickets than you ever had.  I tend to book them closer to the departure date, I tend to select very specific flights with very specific times and destinations.  Moreover, I am much less price sensitive because I'm not paying for the flight directly (my company is) and they are prepared to pay a bit more to have me where I need to be when I need to be there (as opposed to 6 hours later when a cheaper flight might be available).  The airlines know all of these things about me (and other similar travelers) so they adjust prices for us accordingly.  

When a leisure traveler books a ticket, many of these things change - you book further in advance and you care less about specific flight times; all you care about is price.

Question: How do Human Beings "absorb" energy from an impact?
Answer: There are a lot of sources for energy to go here. Most of it probably ended up being converted to heat eventually. Here's a runthrough of what might have happened:

* The child-bike system has some amount of kinetic energy and is heading toward you
* The bike collides with you, skidding off to the side. The energy of the bike is largely dissipated through friction with the ground, with a bit of the energy going into sound and the energy required to chip or bend parts of the bike.
* The child collides with you. This temporarily deforms your body like [this poor guy taking a football to the face](_URL_0_). Initially, the pressure of the child hitting you would locally heat up your body, though it would quickly cool with decompression. The child hitting you will excite "vibrational modes" in your body, just like hitting a piano string will make noise. These will gradually dissipate due to internal resistance of your body, becoming heat. 
* You and the child are sent flying due to the impact. You come to a stop after sliding across the ground. Your initial energy went into
 * Removing bits of your skin
 * Heating the pavement through friction
 * Making a bit of noise
 * Further "impact energy" due to any large objects you might have hit in turn

It's hard to say where exactly the energy will go in what proportions for a complex system like this, but it's generally a good guess to think that the vast majority will end up as heat. Try dropping a bowling ball on the floor a few times. You'll notice it will get quite hot.

Question: Why is it sometimes taboo to classify transgender folk as having a mental illness?
Answer: Because one criterion for mental illness is that the behaviours and thoughts the person is experiencing keeps them from being able to fully function day-to-day. For example, anxiety disorders and depression can impact a person's ability to go to school, to work, to hold social ties, etc. Feeling like one's gender is not strictly male or female is not an illness.  It is an expression of the self, just like whether someone is neurotic or secure, introverted or extraverted, etc. Mental illness has to do with the impact on the person, just like any other illness; it is not because other people feel uncomfortable.

Question: why can you still feel the ebb and flow of the waves when lying in bed after swimming in the waves during the day?
Answer: Your body seeks equilibrium. It is always trying to balance your senses out so that you can tune out normal things, and be alerted to anything in your environment that is different. For example you put an air filter in your bedroom and the first few days you are very aware of the fan noise. After a few weeks your wife turns the air filter off in the middle of the night, and you suddenly wake up because something has changed, it's gone quiet. Your mind learns to filter out the sound of the fan because it's gotten used to it. 

The same thing happens with smells. You put a candle in your room and you smell it really strong, but after a few weeks you don't smell it at all. Then you go on vacation for a week and come back, and you can smell it again. It's one of those reasons why you don't really smell your own home until you've been away from it awhile. 

When you drive in a car, your body gets used to the forces placed on it as you go over bumps and around corners and your mind eventually tunes it out. Your body is also used to not moving around when you get out of the car, so it doesn't feel weird when you're not driving the car. If you get used to driving at a certain speed, your mind and perception of motion will compensate as well, and then if you drive slower, it seems really slow. Doing 70MPH for several hours on a road trip makes going 40mph inside city limits feel like you are crawling because you got used to 70mph. 

However, when you go swimming, your body is bobbing and floating around the water, and your mind is trying to get used to this sensation and filter out the motion. Then later when you are still, your body is still getting used to being still again. If you were to go swimming every day, eventually your body would get used to the transition from water, to land, to bed, and you wouldn't notice feeling waves in your sleep anymore the same way you don't feel weird driving in a car, then sitting in a chair at work. But when you were a child, you probably got a little carsick at times, or got dizzy when getting out of the car. But it was so long ago you forget about it. If you spend a lot of time on a boat and get used to the rocking, it can feel strange to step on dry land again because your body and mind were so used to compensating, they cant suddenly stop doing it, so you have a little trouble walking straight.

Question: Why does a vehicle 15 mph faster than you appear to gain a much greater distance from you depending on your own speed?
Answer: Because when sitting still, you have all of your environment in the same relation to the moving car as you.

However when you are moving 70mph, the only reference point you have is your car and the other car to judge the speed difference.

Question: Why do we experience a 'burning' sensation in our eyes if we haven't slept for a while or immediately after waking up?
Answer: It might be that "crusty" discharge from your eyes called rheum ( a mixture of different kinds of cells, mucus, dust, etc.)  that is released during sleep. It looks likes sand in your eyes hence the saying.

The burning from sleep deprivation is just like what sleeplessness does to the rest of the body, give it fatigue.

Question: When someone sues another person who's not financially well-off for a huge sum of money, how do they get paid?
Answer: Essentially she won't. She can attempt to take money from wherever he may have some, and then on top of that try to take a percentage of any earned (garnishment). But the reality is she won't get a dime.

Question: If we can only see the "observable" universe, how can we make conjectures about things like its beginning?
Answer: What they mean is that eventually space will be expanding fast enough that all the light will be redshifted out of detectable range. 

The universe isnt expanding because of the motion of the galaxies. Space itself is expanding.   Every second there is more space between us and distant galaxies. 

Our relative spatial velocities could be toward each other but space is expanding faster so we move away from each other.

This expansion is proportional to the amount of space so like compound interest the acceleration due to space time expansion increases.  Eventually we will be alone in thw universe.


Now this all assumes that expansion is universal and non reversible.   

At some point in the future we could have the reverse happening.

Im not sure what physics says about that.

Question: How do people on drugs, such as meth, supposedly get superhuman strength, taking multiple people to subdue them etc?
Answer: People are generally stronger than we think. We have built-in safety margins, like the warning line in a pressure valve, so that we don't accidentally injure ourselves... these safety margins are often very cautious, preventing us from exerting anything like our full possible force (except for in emergencies, where things like adrenaline shut down some of the safety mechanisms).

Some drugs either directly shut down the mechanisms (by triggering or emulating surges of the relevant hormones), or otherwise prevent us from being aware of them.

A big part of these mechanisms is pain responses. Drugs often significantly mute pain.

So, you have a person who is unaware of pain and is being as frantically strong as people can be in a severe panicked emergency, versus people who are still very aware of their own pain and perceived limits (and who are often trying to not severely injure the target).

So, it's not that the person has _extra_ strength from somewhere, it's that a person who has had all the limits taken off, against people who are still severely limited in multiple ways, _appears_ superhuman.

Question: If fusion reactors fuse hydrogen into helium, wouldn't we run out of hydrogen at some point?
Answer: Hydrogen is the most abundant substance in the universe. 90% of all the atoms that exist are hydrogen. There is so much hydrogen locked up in fossil fuels that we could just use them for millennia before we even started using water, or sending spaceships to collect it.

Question: Why do we have the capacity to hate ourselves?
Answer: Free thought and free will has many positives and negatives. Increased intelligence means that we also can see the uglier sides of things, and well....

Question: What is the "shy bladder" and what can people do to get over it?
Answer: > What's going on 

You're having an expectation that someone may intrude on your urination, which in turn makes you unable to relax.

 > how can I make it easier on myself

Find someone to squeeze you. /meta

You may need to somehow snuff out all surrounding sounds to help you unwind and start peeing.

Question: - why do most honour killings involve murdering the victim? Why not kill the rapist instead?
Answer: In such cultures women are viewed as property, to be bought, sold, or traded. The honor killing is in retribution for the perceived dishonor of allowing themselves to be raped, as it damages or destroys their value to their male owner.

It is fucked up.

Question: Who writes the stuff that goes in fortune cookies?
Answer: Apparently, the [CFO of the company who manufactures the fortune cookies](_URL_0_). Maybe that's why they so often refer to wealth?

Question: Why is it that if you exhale like blowing out a candle the air is much cooler than if you exhale like you're checking your breath?
Answer: Hi, Mechanical Engineer here. I assume that when you blow out a candle, you purse your lips. Air is pushed out of the small hole and this creates a high pressure, fixed volume chamber in your mouth and exits to a lower pressure, free volume atmosphere. This sudden change in pressure causes the volume of air contained to expand and the temperature to drop, making the air you blow feel cold. This is also known as [Adiabatic Cooling](_URL_0_)

On the other hand, when you check your breath, your mouth is open wide enough that the pressure between the inside of your mouth and the air is similar to one another and the volume is no longer contained. The warm air is now caused by your body temperature heating the air as it leaves your body.

Question: What is the significance of a full metal jacket in small arms ammo?
Answer: Bullets were originally just cast lead, and many people still do cast bullets this way (I used to).  This can lead to lead deposits in the barrel which will hurt accuracy as well as a bunch of lead in the air (not a good thing).  The FMJ is a copper jacket around this soft lead to make it more stable in flight as well as not leading the barrel.  On top of that, lead is some soft and can lead to bullets getting deformed rather easily; FMJs are highly resistant to this.

Question: Why and how is it that the Windows operating system hasnt been replaced?
Answer: One of the main reasons is that Microsoft makes deals with hardware manufacturers to include their OS in those products by default. This starts the cycle that makes most consumers use Windows regardless of if they're at work or at home. Consumers generally don't like change, so then Windows usage seeps into other areas simply because people are familiar with using it in another context.

OSX is out simply because it's tied to Apple hardware and its licenses prohibits OSX from being installed on non-Apple hardware (hackintoshes are excluded). Much like the iOS and Android comparison; there are more manufactures out there than Apple, so by default Apple is going become niche.

This leaves linux and/or other *nix OSes out there. Because Linux is an open source project and not driven by money there's much less incentive than MS to get consumers using the software.

Question: Negative electricity prices.
Answer: Well, think about it. Suppose someone occasionally offers you $10 if you can somehow use one megawatt of electricity for an hour. Would you accept? It's a great deal, but can you actually do it? It turns out it's not so easy.

You could do it, if you had a couple hundred home water heaters, or a couple thousand (edit: make that twenty thousand) incandescent light bulbs. But those would be expensive to buy, and, most of the time, they'd sit idle. It might not be worth the investment.

You could find a better use, so you'd get something out of the electricity in addition to the negative price. You could use the electricity to produce aluminum, for example. Or you could store it in batteries or in some other system to sell it back later when the price is positive. But it would take you a long time to build an aluminum factory or a giant electricity storage system, so if you were offered this deal today, you'd have to say "no, not yet. Maybe in a few years."

This is why prices go negative: because, during peak production, we now produce so much energy that people can't really figure out how to use it all.

You might also ask why the power generators don't shut down when they have to pay to produce energy. That's more complicated. First of all, not all types of generators are able to shut down and start up rapidly. It costs them more to shut down and start up again than it would to just ride out the negative prices (which only last a short time). Second, the wholesale electricity market isn't the only way generators get paid. Some of them have long-term contracts or get government subsidies that provide additional revenue, so they end up making positive money overall.

Question: Why is St. Louis not as important in the United States as it once was? Is it likely to continue shrinking?
Answer: It was very important when the Mississippi was a big hub for transferring industrial products out of the Midwest. The small arms factory my grandmother worked at during WWII in Davenport, IA shipped through St. Louis, for example.

As Midwestern industry declined, so did the shipping of those products out along the Mississippi. 

That said, the shrinking of St. Louis is exacerbated in the statistics. While other cities expanded their borders as their populations sprawled, St. Louis couldn't because it was not part of any of the neighboring counties. Chicago, today, makes up something like 80% of Cook County. St. Louis couldn't expand in a similar way because it couldn't take land from a county it didn't belong to.

Question: How can a computer be infected with virus/malware/etc. by visiting a website?
Answer: When visiting a web page, what you're really doing is making a request to a web server to transfer files to your computer. If one of those files contains a malicious payload, and your computer executes the malicious code without being interrupted by antivirus software, it will become infected.

Malicious code is usually introduced through plugins and scripts that run locally on your machine (referred to as client-side scripts). Java, JavaScript, and Flash are the most common culprits.

Question: why can't people inhale when they get the wind knocked out of them
Answer: You know when you hit your leg on something (like you bring your thigh up into a bar underneath the table) and you pause whilst cursing the pain because your leg kind of seems to go numb for a second? That's your body very temporarily immobilising the area to make sure nothing is SERIOUSLY wrong with the part of your body that got hit. The same thing happens with your diaphragm (the chest muscle that pulls down to make your lungs expand) when you get hit in the torso.  A second or two of no diaphragm contraction means a second or two of no inhalation.

Question: What has happened to the babysitting market in the last ten years?
Answer: The market is flooded. You have a lot of people who can't get jobs elsewhere because the economy isn't as strong, so there are many people able to work as babysitters. Which not only means that you have babysitters lowering their rates to remain competitive with everyone else, but also advertising whatever benefits they have to try and get that babysitting gig.

Question: When listening to earphones/headphones, why does my music feel louder after I yawn?
Answer: Your ears are usually pressurized, which serves as a slight volume reduction in some cases. Over time, the pressure in your ears can accumulate. When you yawn, the muscles used relieve the pressure within your ears, "popping" them and removing the pressure, which allows you to hear better.

Question: What does sunlight consist of, and why do some parts pass through windows while other parts don't?
Answer: Sunlight and heat are (in simple terms, heat is complex) both electromagnetic radiation. They just have different frequencies (the rate at which the wave repeats itself, think of it like the number of waves in a given stretch of ocean). 

UV light (higher frequency) causes sun burn. It’s blocked by special glazing on the glass. Visible light, and IR radiation (lower frequency) which feels like heat, are transmitted through the glass to your body.

Question: Differences and Similarities Between Computer Science and Computer Engineering.
Answer: In Computer Science you will learn mostly programming and a bit of computer hardware and electrical engineering.  
In Computer Engineering you will learn computer hardware, electrical engineering, and programming about equally.  
Neither is particularly useful for IT which I've always felt was more a skill you learn as you go, not in college.  There are trade schools specifically for it though.

Question: Why is it common practice to separate high voltage (120V) wiring/cabling from low voltage (24V) wiring/cabling?
Answer: Electrical Controls Engineer here. Basically it is to reduce noise and to not induce voltage into the lower voltage wires.
With ac circuits the currents alternates  through the wire generating a magnetic field. Any wire close to this can potentially interact with that field and a voltage will be created in the wire. 
The higher the voltage the greater the potential for a low voltage wire like 24dc or especially 4-20mA runs to have noise induced on them.

Question: How do smart phones dissipate the heat created by the processor?
Answer: I think some of the answers are great, but missing a major point that I want to add:

The chips in smartphones ([SoCs](_URL_0_)) are built from the ground up to turn the energy in the battery into useful work as efficiently as possible.

In industry terms, smartphone SoCs have truly insane Performance Per Watt, which is a unit of how much screen brightness, CPU speed, etc can be achieved using only a joule of energy every second. So to answer the question, mainly because they barely produce any heat. Heat is what happens when energy from the battery is lost, and not turned into useful work.

This is why the mobile device revolution only happened recently. Chips this efficient are a very new invention.

Question: Why can we (USA) claim a no flight zone in a foreign country?
Answer: Because we have big guns and fighter jets. All we need is a UN Security Council resolution to be able to do whatever we want where ever we want.

In this case, Russia will veto any resolution like that.

Question: X-box 360 downloadables, the entire Banjo-kazooie game is 48mbs (with heaps of animated scene vids) and a short Banjo trailer is 98mbs to download, why?
Answer: The animated cut scenes in the game are rendered in the game - so instead of having a recording of a video for each scene, they just have to include instructions for how the character will move. 

Think of it as shipping blueprints for a house (knowing the receiver has the supplies) versus shipping an entire house.

Question: Why do I get silly or weird when I'm really tired or otherwise sleep deprived?
Answer: I've actually read that being sleep deprived is like being drunk. "After 17-19 hours without sleep,  performance on some tests was equivalent or worse than that at a blood alcohol content of 0.05%"

Here is the link _URL_0_

Question: What is the biological explanation of when your "heart skips a beat", as in when you get scared or nervous?
Answer: The feeling you get when you're nervous/scared is due to a rapid increase in your heart rate. Epinephrine (adrenalin) is released, and causes the Sinus node (the main pacing area of your heart) to increase it's rate of firing.    
    
You perceive your heart skipping a beat, but it's actually just beating faster. When hearts actually drop or "skip" a beat, you wouldn't feel anything and would most likely feel a very "weird" or odd feeling (it's hard to explain, that's just what patients have told me).    
    
You can have an extra beat in a normal rhythm, which can be caused by a lot of factors. Usually it's some type of heart pathology though and not due to the normal fight or flight response.

Question: Why Do We Still Shutdown Financial Systems for Weekends
Answer: 5-day weeks are something that just a few decades ago was the norm. Most towns would essentially be closed on the weekend, especially Sunday (except for the local diner and hospital, maybe the gas station).

It's only relatively recently that 24 hour/7 day businesses have emerged, mostly out of need. They need to be open 7 days a week to be profitable. Some banks and services have moved that direction (TD Bank for instance), but most have stayed put.

Financial services have never had the need. In addition, because the other financial services they interact with to conduct business are also closed, it's basically impossible to be open on those "off days" since you can't get any work done.

Question: Why did analogue TV tuners click from channel to channel while analogue radio tuners slid along a scale?
Answer: The number of TV channels available in a given area was relatively small, but they were often spread over a very large bandwidth. It was not technically possible to provide continuous tuning over such a wide band, and in any case the mostly empty band space would have provided a frustrating experience. 

The answer was the "turret tuner" which rotated a complete new set of tuned circuits into the RF end of the tuner at each click. The tuned circuits were on individual wafers which snapped into the tuner "turret", and an appropriate, pre-tuned set were provided for each area.  

By contrast, the fractional bandwidth of the AM radio channels was small, 550 kHz to 1750 kHz, or a 3.2:1 ratio, and many channels were full, particularly after dark, so continuous tuning was technically feasible, and made sense to the consumer. Even then, some early radios provided several pre-settable channels selected by buttons: this was done by mechanically shifting the tuning knob as the button was pressed. 

For FM the situation is even better: 88-108MHz, or a ratio of less than 1.3:1. A continuous tuning mechanism is simple, reliable, and cheap to make.

Question: How is gps for self-driving cars accurate enough when my google gps totally craps out any time I'm in a mall plaza?
Answer: Self-driving cars use more than just GPS to navigate; they also use onboard cameras to identify the road, other vehicles, pedestrians, traffic lights, and other potentially relevant information. If they lose GPS signal, they continue going along what was the plotted route until the signal is regained. 

As the technology improves, they can also gather data on *where* GPS is likely to fail (such as a tunnel or mall plaza). In these instances, their navigation can plot more detailed courses in advance since the computer is anticipating a loss of satellite feed for a bit.

Question: Why is much more in taxes taken out of holiday bonuses?
Answer: So when your taxes get calculated, it's from a tax table. There are different tax tables based on pay frequency. So, if you are paid every two weeks, your employer consults the table for your pay amount, and the amount listed is what they have to withhold -- which is based on 26 times that pay amount. That works out pretty well...

...until it comes to bonuses. See, they have to do exactly the same thing with the bonuses, but what happens is that since the check is more than usual, the tables estimate your taxes at a higher tax bracket.

In any event, you'll get that money back when you file your taxes next year.

Question: Why is this winter so warm (in the US at least)?
Answer: Because of La Nina.  A current in the pacific ocean is cooler than normal, and that affects weather across North America.

Question: Why the tallest skyscrapers are built only in Asia or North America but not in Europe?
Answer: The sky is significantly lower in Europe; there's really not enough height to build such huge skyscrapers.

Question: Why does David Cameron want mandatory porn filters for UK internet users?
Answer: Information control.  Australia's government tried to same thing a couple of years ago but it failed.  Turned out that porn was just going to be the first step and then after that it was going to be everything the government didn't like.  Whoever controls the information has the power.  The idea is to get their foot in the door by saying it's about porn, specifically child porn (which it won't do anything to stop since you don't just find that with random searches) and then after that you just quietly expand it to cover everything else.

Question: Can anyone explain to me why it's called a traphouse. I know what a traphouse is, I just want to know the origin of the word.
Answer: Trap is slang for a place where drug dealers sell drugs. It could be a street corner, alley, or trap house.

Question: What are MLM scams and what are examples of them?
Answer: The hallmark of a Multi-Level Marketing scam is that the emphasis and reward are heavily weighted against recruitment instead of the actual work of selling a product.  

If I hire you to sell vacuum cleaners door to door, and pay you based on your time/amount of sales, then it's a legit job.  If instead I pay you relatively little for selling vacuums, but pay you very well for recruiting other sellers, then it's an MLM.

Question: how are license plates numbers distributed?
Answer: Not sure if it's the same in Canada, but states in the U.S. print a bunch sequentially and send them to each local DMV. I'm not sure if they're assigned to an area DMV, or just whichever boxes get loaded. Either way, a specific area will tend to get a whole lot of certain sequences, and not many of others, and the state in general will have more too, since if they print a thousand starting with BNZR[-xxx], there's going to be a thousand more BNZR's than BNZS's, and ~~260,000~~ 676,000 (?) more BN's than BO's.

Question: Why do PC's become slow and "aggravating" to use after little time, but Macs seem to stay at top performace for a long time?
Answer: IT professional here: Can you please define "slow"? This word is thrown around often when it comes to computer complaints but details matter.  Is it taking a long time to boot up? Is netflix choppy? Is it slow when you open a third powerpoint deck?  Those can help me answer you better.

The shorter answer is RAM, that helps keep things quick.  Additionally, macs I have found are less inclined to have background processes initiated and installed silently.  When you hit ctrl-alt-Dlt and go to task manager, then to the "processes tab" that shows you all of those things your computer is doing that you can't see.  That list may be longer and thus taking up more of the computer's resources than it is on a mac.

Question: Why do browsers and websites prompt you for saving your passwords if it is considered unsafe?
Answer: The Average Joe is unlikely to be "hacked", but very likely to forget the password to a site he hasn't used in a while. Browser password-saving is meant to be a convenience feature, not a security feature.

Question: Why does AM talk radio have such a disproportionately large amount of commercials compared to FM music stations?
Answer: Your FM station has sneaky ways of putting in advertising even though it might claim to have 55 minutes of music.  It's advertising when the DJ comes on between songs and reminds you that they will be at a certain business (AD!) tomorrow from 4 to 6 and they'll be giving away a certain item (AD!).  It's advertising when in between songs, the DJ comes on and casually reminds you that the artist they are about to play has a concert coming up (AD!) in a couple weeks and reminds you tickets are still available at a certain website (AD!).  I could go on, but I'm sure you get the idea.

Question: What is the overall goal/point of google deep dream?
Answer: Google deep dream was developed as a test of Google's image recognition software.  Basically, they're running it backwards - rather than taking a picture of a dog, and asking the software "Is that a dog"; they take a random picture and ask the software "show me what looks like a dog".  By seeing what the software draws, you can determine what characteristics it uses to determine a dog.

For instance, back in the early days of image recognition, the department of defense thought they'd trained a computer to recognize tanks in pictures.  It turned out they'd actually trained the tank to recognize sunny days, because the tank pictures were all taken on a sunny day, and the no-tank pictures on a cloudy day.  Google deep dream, for instance, discovered the Google Image recognition thinks dumbbells have a human arm attached to them.

Then they released it to the public because it makes cool pictures.

Question: Why does it seem like most funerals in the US are open-casket?
Answer: Films and TV do open-casket because of course it is more dramatic and visually interesting.

In the US, the family picks which they want.

Question: Why are we mean to people we crush on or love?
Answer: *I hate and I love. Why I do this, perhaps you ask?*

*I do not know, but I feel it happening and I am tortured*


The *tsundere* dilemma has always been with us. It happens for many reasons. Sometimes because the person who feels the attraction is unable, or does not understand how, to express these strange and puzzling emotions. Like when a young boy throws a rock at a girl he likes in the playground and runs off because he doesn't have any other way show how he feels. Everyone knows how to throw a rock though. 


Really the most common reason is that we contain multitudes. Falling in love is a huge and dangerous commitment. It runs counter to some of our basic instincts which are based on self preservation. After you are completely in love you will be willing to sacrifice yourself for that person, you will be devoted to them, in many cases you will put them above yourself. To some parts of ourselves, important parts that do a really good job looking out for us all our lives, this is absolutely awful and horrifying. As this storm rages within us sometimes lightning bolts will fly out, sometimes sunshine.

Question: Why is medicine dosage measured in half-life if half the medicine is still in the body?
Answer: It's not used to purely say when a patient has "0" of any drug in their system, it's more to help when giving "Top Up" doses, say you have a patient on Morphine that needs an extra dose, knowing the half life helps Doctors/Nurses decide of they're able to give them a slight dose if they need it.  
It's also used when calculating Antibiotic doses, as you need a minimum level in the body to acheive the desired effect, but balanced with potentially overdosing.  
For example, if 50mg is the minimum requirement, but each tablet is 100mg, with a one hour half life, the dosage would be: 
100mg, wait an hour for it to drop to 50mg, another 100mg which takes it to 150mg, so the next hour/half life only takes it down to 75mg, so if the patient had another dose they would have 175mg in their body and so on. So, if this wasn't kept in check they would soon be potentially overdosing.

Question: Teresa's daughter Riddle.
Answer: There's a couple of things you need to take away. We can work this out similar to how algebra work.

"my daughter's mother" = "me, or my female partner"

So now the riddle is "Teresa's daughter is me or my partner"

If Teresa's daughter is me, I am Teresa's daughter

If Teresa's daughter is my partner, I am Teresa's son in law

Since none of the answers are "Son in law", the answer has to be "Daughter", or B

Question: The Jets releasing Tim Tebow and why it's such a big news story.
Answer: He is a highly prominent player who has now been released.

He is a former Heisman winner (best college football player) who also won two national championships in college.  He was also drafted in the 1st round of the NFL draft which would imply that he's a great player with a strong future in the pros (though weirdly, in baseball, hockey, and basketball winning "Player of the Year" usually means you're going to also be strong in the pros, but very often elite college football players - QBs especially - have a tough time making it).  

It is also notable because even while he was winning awards and champsionships in college, and even as he was taking his first professional team to the playoffs and winning consistently, people were saying he was not a good QB who did not have a long-term future as QB in the pros

It became apparent that Denver did not have faith in him as a QB, so he was traded to a team with a weak QB situation under the expectation he would get played and given an opportunity to replicate his success in Denver, but he never really got a chance to play (I think he threw 10 passes all year, and didn't start a game and wasn't good when he did play), and then was cut.

In the end, it appears that no one in the NFL thinks he can make it as a QB (since the Jets tried to trade him before they finally cut him) in the NFL, so Tebow will either try to latch on to another team as a backup QB, switch positions (he's extremely athletic so everyone has thought he could make it as a WR/TE, or RB/FB.

He is also prominent because of his dreamy good looks, very prominent religious views, and being generally considered one of the nicest, humble people around.  He appears to have star quality on every facet of athletics except actual skill on the football field.

Question: What keeps your skin cells in a human shape instead of them reproducing outwards indefinitely?
Answer: Oversimplified: Skin grows upward from a base layer - as you go further there's less and less blood supply, and cells aren't supported. The outer surface of your skin is substantially dead cells that form a protective layer.

In the case of injury, other tissues are involved, and chemicals help signal where repair needs to happen. An abscence of those chemicals means repair can stop.

Question: The "cooling" sensation when eating a powdered-sugar donut.
Answer: The process of sugar dissolving in saliva is endothermic (absorbs heat).  Since it's such a fine powder, it happens quickly and the effect is noticeable.

Question: Why do people have to swear under oath? If they're willing to lie, they'll do it with or without the oath.
Answer: If you lie while under oath, you're guilty of [perjury](_URL_0_), which is a felony in the United states, punishable by up to 5 years in prison.  If you lie in your day-to-day life, you're just an asshole exercising the 1st Amendment.

Question: Can someone explain string theory to me?
Answer: Precocious child: "What is everything made out of?"  
     Science: "Little things called atoms."

PC: "Well, what are atoms made out of?"
     Science:  "Smaller things called protons, neutrons, and electrons."

PC: "What are those made out of?"
     Science:  "Even smaller things called quarks."

PC: "What are quarks made of?"
     Science: ".........uh, small bits of string vibrating in the 11th dimension.  I think.  Why don't you go see how well you can hide?  I'll count to 100 and see if I can find you."

Question: How do game cartridges and video game discs work?
Answer: Cartridges have memory chips inside that have the game code stored in them. When you insert the cartridge into the console, metal contacts in the console touch metal contacts on the game cartridge, and they can exchange data via electrical signals. The console loads the game off of the cartridge, and you play. 

Discs are covered with lots of microscopic pits that were imprinted on it when it was "pressed", and the console uses a laser to read the sequence of those pits, and turns that sequence into a digital signal. 

Cartridges load very fast, but the memory chips are relatively expensive and that limits how much data can feasibly be stored in them. Discs are very cheap to make, and hold a good amount of data, but cannot be read nearly as fast as cartridges.

Question: After Charlie Hedbo, people ranted and raved about the importance of protecting free speech, even if it offends people. Now people wants kids expelled and made criminals for offensive things they say it private. Please explain the logic here.
Answer: Apart from what /u/Kitworks has said (that it's undoubtedly not the same people complaining), one of the cases you've identified is people being opposed to the *murder* of a dozen cartoonists for the brusque *expression of a political position*.  The other is a few people being expelled from a university, not because of their political opinions but because of their bare-faced racism.

The two situations are not the same - it's not contradictory to think that the speech in one of them is more important than the speech in the other and deserves greater protection.

Question: How does adware work?
Answer: Adware is a piece of Internet connected software that is ether installed alongside something else you installed (opencandy), displays ads as part of the interface (Windows 10 apps, bittorent,) or displays ads outside the program and doesn't make it clear (comet cursor, bonzi buddy) 

Sometimes the program sends a request for an ad, or has ads pushed to it. These are a little less frightening, since they simply show you an ad. Other types may change your proxy settings (a proxy is when your computer connects to another computer to get to the Internet, like a game of telephone) and this proxy injects ads into your web pages and may also redirect your search engine to one they made to collect data for more advertising. This one is a great deal scarier, since all traffic is going through a remote computer you were not told it would be going through that could also record your browsing data as well as passwords for things like banks and stores. 

Adware itself is mostly annoying, causing your computer to slow down by using its resources to display ads and by.. Well displaying ads when you are trying to use it. The real danger is that this type of software often includes "backdoor" access to your computer, letting the authors install any other software they want for payment. This could mean installing botnet software to attack companies and governments, this could be viruses or malware like cryptolocker which encrypts your files and holds the key hostage or software that uses your Webcam to spy on you to use as blackmail or to upload to a porn site. 

In a security conscious environment, it's another program that could be hacked to gain entry to a system. Especially since most Adware isn't written very well. 

So if you don't want your mom to find pictures of you stroking your harbl, keep your system clean. This includes your phone, as it's really just another computer. No brand or OS is truly secure against malware, malware sneaks into the app store and Google play all the time and may take days or weeks to be found.

Question: [Biology / botany] How is it possible that some plant species mimic the visual form of other beings, without being able to 'see'?
Answer: Random mutation. Sometimes the random mutation results in a look that slightly mimics some other look, which might give an advantage. For instance, something that looks slightly like a predator, might scare away a herbivore intent upon eating the plant. 

Thus, that plant survives to reproduce. Others that don't have the look, get eaten more regularly. So over time, more of the 'scary looking' plant's progeny survive, relative to the 'tasty looking' plant. 

So, it doesn't "Try" to look like something. It just accidentally does, but since it works, it gets reinforced by survival. 

However, some of the examples from the article you link are simply, as it alludes to, cases of pareidolia. It isn't mimicking something. We simply think it looks like it because our brains like to find patterns, and in some cases there is coincidental similarity.

Question: Why do people naturally put on a different voice when they're on the phone or serving someone?
Answer: When on the phone you can't see facial expressions or body language so you have to communicate all that information through just your voice. Therefore some people try to use a happier or overly emotional voice in order to be perceived the proper or happier tone.

While serving someone, the idea is to please the customer. No one wants to talk to a grumpy ass hat while trying to buy something so the person providing service puts on a show so they can continue having a job. Sometimes you have a shit day and it would be bad if that reflected. Also, some people aren't confident in their speaking skills so they use a "different persona" in order to overcome the fear

Question: How does voting for the president work?
Answer: Each state is allotted a certain number of votes, based on the number of congressional seats they have. For example, North Dakota, which has one representative and two senators, has three electoral votes. California, has 53 representative (because they have a much larger population) and two senators, for a total of 55 votes. For each electoral vote a state gets, the state assigns one delegate. Technically, the delegates can vote any way they want, but they will vote for whoever the state popular vote goes toward. Some states allow split votes, for example Nebraska in 2008 was split between McCain and Obama. McCain won the state, but per state laws Obama was given one delegate.

Any candidate which receives a majority of the electoral votes shall become president. 

Historically the popular vote has meant pretty much nothing, however that is changing with some new laws which say that whichever way the popular vote goes, the state electoral votes will go, regardless of which way the state ACTUALLY votes. In other words, for example (not a real life example) if Texas were to vote for Romney but Obama won the national popular vote, Texas's electoral votes would go for Obama instead.

The biggest reason for keeping the electoral system is that it encourages candidates not to write off small states such as Nevada or Iowa. If it was only a popular vote, 99% of the election money would be spent in states like Illinois, California, NY and Texas. 

MOST OF THE TIME though, the popular vote lines up with the electoral vote. I.e., if you win the popular vote, you are extremely likely to win the electoral vote as well.

Question: Why do some tests and assessments require that answers are filled in using a #2 pencil?
Answer: Because the machine that is used to scan it can only see a certain shade of black.

Question: How do one-way windows actually work?
Answer: They are just heavily-tinted windows.  What makes them one-way is that the room that's supposed to be visible is well-lit, and the room that's not supposed to be visible is dark (same way tinted windows on cars hide what's inside).

The window is actually just as visible in both directions.  It's placement that makes it work.

Question: Why is the last percent when charging your device the one that takes the most time?
Answer: In general, for charging batteries like lithium ion cells, there is a maximum safe voltage that shouldn't be exceeded (keep in mind batteries can hold a ton of energy, and you don't want that released uncontrollably).   

This generally means that as the charging cycle comes to a conclusion, the voltage of the charging circuit increases to a constant level, and because the cell voltage increases after that, the current flowing into the battery tapers off.

Question: Is it possible to not get addicted to Cigarettes and Alcohol?
Answer: There's definitely a spectrum of people's physiological reaction to nicotine and how addictive it is. Some people just can take it or leave it. I was like you, a social smoker in college and for a few years after. (This was back in the day when you could smoke in bars.) I smoked when I drank, and a "heavy" day for me was maybe ten cigs, but during the week or when I went home for the summers I didn't smoke at all and never missed it. Obviously, you shouldn't smoke (sorry, had to say it), but if it's been two years since you started, if you were going to get addicted at all I think you would have been by now.

Question: Why is the hiring practice so much more difficult for minimum wage jobs than skilled labor?
Answer: I think part of it is weeding people out. The other part of it is that for skilled labor you usually have some other credentials that make the tests given at DQ pointless. If you have a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution, you should be able to pass a math and literacy test and have proven that you can at least follow university rules well enough to get a degree. That being said, I've seen some companies require ridiculous paperwork like you mentioned and I've seen other places hire minimum wage workers on the spot as soon as they've finished filling out an application.

Question: Why are people with a lazy eye unable to perceive 3D in 3D films?
Answer: 3D films used polarized light to create the effect.  The footage is shot with 2 cameras, and projected through 2 projectors with different polarizing filters, one vertically polarized and the other horizontal.  The 3D glasses are also filters, only allowing light of a vertical polarization to enter one eye, and light of a horizontal polarization to enter the other eye.  The brain combines the images to form an image, and that's where the 3D effect comes together.  (Read more [here](_URL_0_)).

From what little I know of Amblyopia (lazy eye), both eyes are still functional, but since the one eye is misaligned the brain ignores the image from it when forming the image in your brain.  The two-camera effect is lost, since your brain is only 'seeing' the film from one of the cameras and ignoring the other one.  You're essentially watching a standard one-camera production, the only difference being you're watching it through a polarizing filter.

Question: How are professional sports statistics captured?
Answer: It's a bit of both. Traditionally stats are collected by the official statisticians - there is usually a team of them (although it depends on the sport.) For instance in hockey one person is responsible for tracking when each player gets onto the ice and when each player leaves the ice, for the purposes of tracking time on ice. All of the traditional baseball stats (batting average, ERA, etc,) can be gleaned from the official scorer's report.

There are more advanced statistics being tracked, like in baseball they are tracking things like launch angles and exit velocities for batted balls, route efficiency for fielders running towards fly balls, etc. That stuff is all computerized (and the MLB buzzword for it is "Statcast")

Question: why are trans fats not completely banned by the FDA?
Answer: Several ostensible reasons, such as the fact that trans fats are naturally occurring in some levels in many meat and dairy products, so banning them would mean banning those meats or diary items, which would be both difficult and cause a large uproar from consumers. Also, the federal government doesn't *really* have the authority to do so. They have had to jump through many convoluted hoops and make up laws by the seat of their pants to get things like marijuana made illegal, mostly because banning the possession of things like plants and naturally occurring compounds isn't actually an authority given to the federal government by the Constitution. They have gotten away with it by stretching some Constitutional provisions like the interstate commerce clause to claim that anything that *might* be transferred across state lines, or even something of which it could not be discerned if it crossed state lines or not is presumed to have done so, in order to give themselves the authority to ban things wholesale for the entire country. There is a reason why banning alcohol took a Constitutional amendment a century ago. Back then, things like what the federal government could and could not do were more well understood and taken seriously. Now, not so much. 

But the primary reason is much more simple. There is a hell of a lot of money in multi national companies, the same companies that sell hundreds of billions of dollars in products that contain trans fats. Those companies have a vested interest in making sure they're not banned, and have their lobbyists make that abundantly clear to their paid lawmakers.

Question: All these random pyramid schemes in the US
Answer: In the USA, pyramid schemes have long been illegal. Amway was the pioneer of "multi-level marketing" (MLM), and won a regulatory battle against the FTC in 1979: [In re Amway Corp] (_URL_0_). They had been accused of being a pyramid scheme, but the FTC ruled that they weren't. After that, all such schemes could cite the FTC precedent, saying "we're no worse than Amway". They are officially "network marketing" or "multi-level marketing" (MLM) now. It's the USA, where it's important that you have the freedom to make money off of other people's gullibility. 

These schemes fall under more regulatory scrutiny in Europe, including the UK. Amway was shut down for a year in the UK (2007) and only reopened after legal action. As in the USA, it hinges on whether your income is dependent on the recruitment of other people: if it is, it's an illegal pyramid scheme. So why are they less common in Europe? I don't have a clear answer on that - it would require a survey of attitudes. But many people are aware that it happens in the USA and see the consequences in the news.

Question: Why do people think that blacking out their eyes in pictures protects their identity?
Answer: Eyes presumably show the most emotion / personality etc of any body part, so we're most likely to remember those, if we see them again.

Also, who blacks out their own eyes..? It's usually done by others to protect the identity of someone.

Question: why do dry erase markers erase themselves if you color over a line you already drew?
Answer: The pigment in the marker is dissolved in alcohol. The alcohol evaporates after you write with the marker and expose it to air, leaving the pigment as a dry, solid layer (though easily wiped away). This is why you can't write with dried-out markers. But if you write over the pigment with the marker, it dissolves again in the alcohol you're adding.

Question: Bohr's Theory of the Hydrogen Atom
Answer: Basically, the atom was understood like a solar system. Electrons orbiting the nucleus. Bohr suggested that the electrons could only be in very specific orbits and light was emitted when it went from a high to a lower orbit and light was absorbed when it went from a lower to a higher.

Question: What does a a lawyer do to defend someone like Dylann Roof
Answer: A lawyer is supposed to protect a clients rights. As such, at a minimum, his job should be to ensure his rights are not violated.
The accused should have the right to a fair trial, should not be mistreated, should be innocent until proven guilty and so on.

What makes a lawyer "good" is that they also try to get their clients the best deal possible. The guy might be going to jail for the rest of his life but it's arguably better than death row, and so even in these extreme cases a lawyer can strike a deal. In cases where the client might have a mental illness, the lawyer can shift blame off the individual and get a reduced sentence, this is known as [pleading insanity](_URL_0_).

Imagine I give you an exam book for a subject you've never even heard of and I give you no instructions. It's full of words you don't understand. Then I demand you complete the quiz in a very short time span. You basically have no hope, so we deem that kind of thing unfair. The lawyer does the quiz for you, he's the translator and his intention should be to get you the highest mark you can get. Better lawyers know how to translate your statements into more favorable sounding pleas. They know that the judge is looking to figure out your intent, intelligence, awareness, remorse and chance of re-offending and he will try to guide the judge/jury to a decision that has the best outcome for the client.

Watch Making A Murderer and you'll see how confusing this can all be.

Question: why do musicals play a medley of the music in the musical at the beginning before things start?
Answer: Traditionally the Overture (from French for "Opening") introduces the musical themes used later in a piece like an opera.  The Finale will recap them at the end.  It's a little like the essay structure Introduction - Body - Conclusion.

Question: Has Russia really decimated ISIS the way some reports suggest?
Answer: They've certainly decimated *somebody*, that's for sure. Two things to keep in mind here: One, Russia is conducting its air strikes in cooperation with the Syrian army. This makes them very effective due to the fact that ground forces can move in and exploit weaknesses in enemy positions created by the bombing. The US doesn't support the Assad regime and doesn't cooperate with it, so its bombing doesn't do as much. Yeah, they strike some targets and do some damage, but nothing happens afterwards, there's no follow-up, so the overall effect is less significant.

Two, the US distinguishes between the various armed groups in the region, whereas Russia tends to lump all of them under the label ISIS. It's not a two-way war in Syria, it's a lot more complicated than that. You've got Assad's regime, a bunch of non-ISIS groups trying to overthrow it, and ISIS itself, and everybody's fighting everybody else. The US attacks only ISIS and leaves the non-ISIS anti-Assad groups alone, whereas Russia is squarely on Assad's side and attacks all his enemies, ISIS and non-ISIS alike, and refers to all of them as ISIS. So the Russians might say they bombed ISIS positions when in reality they bombed al-Nusra positions or Free Syrian Army positions or whatever, even though these are different groups that are fighting against both ISIS *and* Assad (and each other). Refer to [this handy map](_URL_0_). Yeah, they've bombed some ISIS positions, but they've also bombed a lot of non-ISIS rebel positions.

Russia claims it's bombing ISIS to make it seem like it's fighting on the same side as the US. In reality the US is fighting against ISIS to take pressure off the other, non-ISIS rebel groups in the hopes that this gives them enough breathing room to take down Assad, whereas Russia is fighting against everybody, ISIS and non-ISIS alike, to keep Assad in power.

Question: Why does rubbing your eyes feel so good? And is it bad for your eyes/vision?
Answer: Optometry student here. I suspect that rubbing your eyes could feel good for many reasons. Allergies is the obvious one. But usually it's because people tend to feel like they have "tired" eyes, especially at the end of the day, which for optometrists that translates into "dry eyes" much of time. Rubbing your eyelids can stimulate meibomian glands to help secrete oils that normally cover your tear film layer. This keeps your tears from evaporating = less dry eye and increased comfort. Rubbing your eyes may also feel good because you are "massaging" the eyelid muscles and purging them of lactic acid (like stretching your leg muscles for example). I have nothing that supports this - it is only my best guess.

Is it bad? Generally no because the eye can take a lot more pressure than people think - your cornea is only 0.5mm thick and to think that it rarely ever gets seriously damaged is astounding. Some theories exists that people rubbing their eyes a lot (oculodigital sign) can be a risk factor for developing a pretty miserable condition called keratoconus, in which the cornea becomes misshapen and may require a transplant after a few decades with the condition. But this might actually be BECAUSE they already have the early stage of this condition and their eyes are irritated from the disease, and so they rub them. The jury is still out.

Question: Why do people advise against using the 1st check in a checkbook?
Answer: It's a paper scheme obviously! They just wanna sell us more paper!

Just kidding... I've never had anyone tell me that before. I always use the first check and nothing bad has happened to me. I'm posting here to profile this, so that I can see if I'm being stupid.

Question: Why can't we use spectrometry to reverse engineer the Coca Cola secret formula?
Answer: At most that will tell you whats in the can and the approximate amounts. That information is already printed on the can. It wont tell you the process that was used to mix the ingredients.

Question: Why is violence in video games acceptable, but sexual violence is an extreme taboo?
Answer: Everyone is used to violence and in some cases it’s perfectly acceptable to use it (e.g. when defending yourself). There are no cases where sexual violence would be acceptable, however.

Question: Why do jokes make us laugh?
Answer: A good explanation I have heard (I'm a bit of a comedy geek) is that most jokes *subvert our expectations*. In other words, they lead us to start following a trail of thought in a certain direction, then BAM! we are forced to think in a totally different way suddenly. The element of surprise makes us laugh.

Here's a good article about jokes:

_URL_0_

Question: How do birds know which direction to fly when they head south for winter?
Answer: Many birds have a sense of magnetic field that allows them to know direction and travel to the right place. Many sea turtles also have that sense. 

Many birds also have a sense of barometric pressure as well, which is why you can often birds leaving an area before a storm.

Question: Doctors always super-sterilize everything before any procedure, from giving a shot to full surgery. Is this "can't be too careful" or would I take horrible infections from receiving a shot without alcohol wipes?
Answer: It's less of a worry about giving you a small infection that goes away after a week or two and more of "we don't want to get sued for $20 million because we gave a guy flesh-eating bacteria with his tetanus shot."

Question: How does a molecular sieve dry a sorbent
Answer: The principle is called adsorption. 

Molecular seive is a material with tiny little pores, like activated charcoal. These pores are like the dimples on a golf ball but tiny, nanometers in size.

 You make it work by selecting a desiccant with a pore size that matches the size of the molecules you want to absorb. 

The pores 'catch' and hold onto the molecules, adsorping them. The forces involved could be van der waahls force, covalent bonds, or just static electricity.  

Some molecular sieves can be heated to then release the adsorbate and reuse the sieve.

Question: In what circumstances does a president sign a bill while Congress is in session?
Answer: If in 10 days the president doesn't sign a bill and Congress is still in session then it becomes a law just like you said.  In that case then, the president has three options.  They are different in not just whether the bill becomes a law but also in what they mean. 

 * The president can obviously veto a law meaning he is strongly saying it shouldn't be a law.  As long as congress doesn't have enough support to over turn it, that's that. 

 * The president can sign it meaning he really does want it to be a law.  

 * The president can not sign it. It still becomes a law but the president doesn't have to show that he like the law.  It's a statement more than anything else.  Maybe he knows that he will be overturned if he vetos it (which would make him look weak), maybe it's for another reason, but whatever the underlying reasons it's a way for him to basically say "I don't like this enough to put my name on it but I can't/won't stop it."

Question: What does a movie/TV producer actually do?
Answer: For film, producers oversee the entire production of the film. First, they have to acquire the rights to create the film. Then, they have to find someone to write the script (or buy the already written script). Then they have to hire the director to actually create the film, along with hiring the casting director, sound people, actors, etc. Some of these decisions are done in conjunction with the director, while others are not.

In short, the producers are in charge of the business of making the film.

Question: Why does e^pi*i + 1 = 0?
Answer: Probably can't explain at an ELI5 level, but here's the gist of it:

e^angle*i  is a rotation of a point in the complex plane (just pretend it's typical "x is horizontal y is vertal" for the moment)

angle=0 degrees means the point (1,0).

angle =90 degrees means the point (0,1)

angle=180 degrees means the point (-1,0).  *Pay attention to this one*

angle=270 degrees means (0,-1)

angle=360 degrees means (1,0).  You're back where you started.

Here's the deal.  In the complex plane, x means "real numbers", y means "imaginary numbers".

so for example (2,7) would mean 2+7i.

So (1,0) means 1+0i (or just 1)....(0,-1) means 0+-i (or just -i) and so on.

What is 180 degrees in terms of radians?  Well, it's just pi.

So e^ pi * i = e^ 180 x i = (-1,0) = -1+0i (or just -1).

So now you have e ^ pi * i =-1.  Add 1 to both sides of the equation, I'll leave that as an exercise for the reader.

Question: Why does color affect heat absorption?
Answer: It's not color that affect heat absorption. It's the physical propriety of material that absorb different wavelenght of light. So if a material absord all visible wavelength of light it will appear black because it doesn't reflect back light into our eyes. 

Alternatively, something white is made of something that reflect all the visible light back so we see the color white. 

Something that absorb more wavelength will absorb more energy from that light, which will become heat.

Question: Why is gambling is considered a dangerous vice?
Answer: Okay, you're asking two questions here.

1. Why is gambling considered a dangerous vice? Because some people have the tendency to become addicted to gambling and it can engulf their entire life. They will spend every last dime to chase that feeling of winning. In the end though, the house always wins and that's why it's a business.

2. Why can you join the army but not gamble because of your age? Well, it depends on the state (assuming US) you live in, and also the type of gambling. Some states, depending on the form of gambling (lottery, casino, etc.) do allow gambling at 18. The other answer is outdated laws or laws that make zero sense. 

You're correct that in some place you may not be allowed to gamble because of your age, but you can enlist to go and possibly die. You are also not allowed to drink or smoke (some states). One can go and risk their life for country, but god forbid they have a beer after work.

Question: The conflict in the Middle East with Israel and the rest of the Arab nations
Answer: This is obviously a super complicated issue, with many conflicting viewpoints. Both sides have their own view of the facts, and even within each side there are many different views.

I’ll give you my own take on this. I’m American and Jewish, but I am fairly sympathetic to the Palestinian side. I grew up learning this story, so my knowledge on the subject is pretty deep, but of course biased. Hopefully someone who knows a lot about the Palestinian view point can chime in here. Please reply in the spirit of sharing your views, not debating and accusing. If you think I've got something wrong, please tell me politely.

**Biblical history background:** According to the bible, and legitimate archeological record, the land in that area was ruled by people who called themselves the People of Israel around 3000 BCE. The city of Jerusalem was first built in this time by King David, and this is supported by the archeological record. Around that time, the Jews built a temple in Jerusalem. In 586 BCE, they were conquered and expelled to Babylon (modern day Iraq). They later returned and built another much larger temple under Roman rule. This temple was destroyed in 70 CE, and the Jews were thoroughly dispersed by the Romans in the 100 or so years following.

I think the above is pretty solid in terms of facts, but the big question under dispute is whether it counts for anything that Jews lived in the land 2000-3000 years ago. Many Israelis argue that there has been at least some Jewish population on the land continuously since that time.

**Rise of modern Zionism:** The modern idea of Zionism (Jews wanting a country on this land) was really kicked off by a French journalist named Theodor Herzl in the 1800s. At this time, the land of Israel/Palestine was ruled by the Ottoman Empire. 
After WWI, the land was held by the British as part of the British Empire, and the area was called the British Mandate of Palestine. It was during this time that the Arab and Jewish movements started really competing for rule. Arab rulers from the Ottoman era were trying to negotiate to reclaim the land from the British. At the same, Jews around Europe started immigrating to Israel in a coordinated effort to support the Zionist cause and also flee dangerous anti-Semitic home countries.

**Post WWII and the UN partition plan:** OK, I skipped some important stuff from the British Mandate period, but here’s the main event.

After WWI, there were many colonies held by European powers around the world. After WWII, there began a trend to return those colonies to the natives of the land. Jews and Arabs both claimed the right to the land.
In 1947, the (relatively new) UN proposed a partition plan that would have divided the territory into two states. The Jews accepted the plan, the Arabs rejected it. In my personal view, this is crucial to understanding the current conflict – to me, it says that Jews were willing to live in peace side-by-side with Arabs from the start, but the Arabs denied the Jews had rights to any of the land.

After further lobbying by Jewish Zionists, in 1948 the UN passed a resolution to declare a Jewish state on 78% of the territory (excluded the West Bank and Gaza). Immediately after Israel declared independence, the surrounding Arab states attacked it. Israel emerged victorious and became a sovereign nation.

**Six-Day War:** The last major change to borders occurred in the war of 1967 between Israel and a number of Arab states (Egypt, Jordan, Syria). After years of skirmishes and escalations, both sides were building up forces in anticipation of a war. Israel made the first strike, bombing the airfields in Egypt. Six days later the war was over, with Israel taking control of Egyptian Sinai, Gaza, the West Bank (from Jordan) and the Golan Heights (from Syria).
In the years after this, the Sinai territory was returned to Egypt in exchange for a peace agreement, and Israel made peace with Jordan as well.

**Gaza, the West Bank and East Jerusalem today:** These are the areas that are called the occupied territories. When you hear people talking about Israeli settlements, it is building that occurs on these lands. Palestinians say this is an Israeli attempt to cement their presence in the territories (and that’s a fair point). 

In 1993, the Oslo Peace Accords were an attempt at negotiating peace between the two sides. The premise of the agreement would be: Palestinians get a state in the West Bank/Gaza, in return for a halt in violence and recognition of Israel’s legitimacy. The peace process since then has always been based on the same premise, but there have been problems on both sides.

Many Israelis do not want to give up the land, and religious Jews make a point of moving to settlements to hold the territory. Many Palestinians still say that 100% of the land should be returned, denying Israel’s right to exist. Extremist factions such as Hamas actively endorse violence and terrorism to drive the Jews off the land.

And Jerusalem is one of the stickiest points of all. Israel currently holds half of Jerusalem and occupies the other half. Israelis say that if Palestinians ran the area, it would be impossible to defend Jerusalem from terrorism and violence, and that the Palestinians have not shown that they want to stop the violence.

Also, because Israel’s military is massively stronger than the Palestinian’s fighting forces, the violence continues to follow a pattern in recent years. Groups in Gaza launch hundreds of crude rockets indiscriminately into Israel, with only a few casualties. Eventually, Israel retaliates with much more force, targeting weapons centers and known terrorist agents, but inevitably killing many innocents in the process. 

Gazans claim that Israel restricts movement of people and goods across their borders, denying them needed materials. Israel claims it must control the borders because Gaza is importing weapons and materials to build rockets. Both sides are true.

Soooooo....it's very complicated and no one has any idea what to do. Israel refuses to keep offering land when they say that Palestinians cannot be trusted to stop using violence. Palestinians refuse to stop the violence because they say that Israel cannot be trusted to give them rights and land. It makes me very sad.

Question: if a teenager can be charged with child pornography for having pictures of themselves, why can't they be charged with sexual assault when they masturbate?
Answer: Because they've given consent to it as a sexual act. However, if they somehow did it against their own will, then they could potentially sue themselves. Even under the age of consent, they are doing it to themselves. Plus, the only people who could sue in the name of their kid would be the parents. But again, the kid is the one doing it to themselves. Child pornography is illegal no matter if you give consent to someone or yourself, or not.

Question: Stephen Hawking theory that information can be lost from the universe when black holes evaporate away
Answer: Well, it's wrong because of the word evaporate. When water evaporates, the information of water is not gone. It's transferred to another state of matter. It's only lost in the sense you can't get that cube of ice back, in exactly the way it was frozen, even if you could somehow capture all the water molecules. Honestly, I'm not smart enough to understand how Hawking Radiation works, using it's quantum mumbo jumbo. The only way I can reason it, is to imagine its higher frequency means it isn't as bendable. Like the difference between a tree branch and a steel beam. In that rationale, then gamma rays escape the hole because it can resist the force to bend back upon itself.

Question: How do they get pure oxygen into oxygen bottles?
Answer: Do you mean tanks of compressed oxygen?

There's a few different methods, depending on the purity of gas required. A common method is cryogenic distillation. Basically you make ambient air so cold that it liquifies, then raise the temperature of that liquid just to the boiling point of oxygen.

The oxygen gas will boil off (evaporate) from the rest of the liquified gasses (CO2, nitrogen, argon) and you can capture and compress it to produce pure oxygen.

Question: Why do lips, fingertips, toes, etc. get blue when they are cold?
Answer: I'm going to go out on a limb and assume the OP is asking why that particular color. Why not yellow or polka dots or zebra stripes? Is there a reason it's blue.

Question: Why do men and women have separate restrooms?
Answer: It is for comfortability. Many people feel uncomfortable with members of the opposite sex around while they are doing their business. It is that simple.

Question: When I'm sitting on my couch and my phone signal switches from 4G to 3G or drops from 5 bars to just 1, what is happening to cause it?
Answer: Wireless communications engineer here. There are several things that might be happening.

**TL;DWR** It's probably your network trying to provide service to the greatest number of customers.

Ok, so full explanation: First, and most likely, is that your cellular provider is attempting to redistribute the load on their network. Typically this happens by making less loaded cells appear 'virtually more attractive' making your phone more likely to change which tower it is communicating with and listening to. This is most likely to happen between frequency bands, because the way the energy moves through space is very different depending on frequency. Generally speaking, higher frequencies will not propagate as far.

In my area, for example, AT & T typically advertises their 1900 MHz (high frequency band) 2G cells as 20dB (100x) 'better' than those in the 850 MHz (low) band because they want mobiles that *can* see 1900 MHz band cells to use them, to free up cells on the lower bands for users who cannot. The same thing can happen between 3G and 4G. A network carrier might have a very loaded 700 MHz 4G carrier, and some lighter loaded 2100MHz 3G channels and want you to move to the 3G channels if you are in range.

This might sound like carriers screwing their customers over, but it's really an important construct in cellular networks. It is entirely possible that you will get better data rates with 2 bars of 3G compared to 4 bars of 4G, depending on how loaded the particular cells are. Sometimes, of course, this works to your disadvantage and you will get worse rates, but it generally improves the *net capacity* of the network.

There are also propagation issues, though they are unlikely to cause such dramatic affect as above. It *is* entirely possible that the box truck that just parked down the street is causing an unfortunate reflection resulting in severe multipath interference (multiple signals taking different paths from the transmitting antenna to the receiving antenna as they are reflected off usually metal objects, arriving at different times causing a jumbled received signal) for the great 2100 MHz 3G signal you were getting forcing you to use a poor performing 850 MHz 2G cell. Dead zones in your house *are* likely to be cause by multipath interference however as signals bounce around they destructively cancel in certain areas. Moving your phone can make this effect much more pronounced.

Finally, there are numerous edge cases that can cause this. The network may be taking a cell down for maintenance, or you were associated with a temporary cell. Maybe an emergency call was placed kicking you off the channel you previously had, or a someone with a priority data arrangement requested use of the cell. It's hard to be exhaustive here.

Anyway, I suspect for very dramatic changes (5 bars - >  1 bar, or 4 bars 3G to 2 bars GPRS) the first description is what's happening

**EDIT:** So /u/lostpasswordagain made an amazing analogy in his comment [here](_URL_0_). It doesn't track 1:1 with everything that I said above, but it gets the idea of why this is important down - I'm going to paraphrase here:

Two cities are connected by two highways, a 6-lane highway with a speed limit of 75 mph (4G), and a 4 lane highway with a speed limit of 50 mph (3G). Obviously, given a choice, you would want to take the former. However, given enough traffic, you will reach a point where it would have been better to take the slower highway. In this example, the choice would be up to the driver, but since a cellular provider owns the road (spectrum), they get to make the decision, so they tell each car which highway they are allowed to use to optimize the amount of cars that can get from city 1 to city 2.

Question: How do fuel cells in the Voyager 1  &  2 last for 80+ years, yet the fuel in my car won't last a week?
Answer: They use these:
_URL_0_

They're great if you need a power source that lasts for years and years and years and you only need to power a radio, a computer and a few other gadgets on a satellite, but they're not great when you need lots of power to drive a car with.

Question: Why do sites choose to go with 'smart' or 'curated' lists (Hulu / Instagram) versus pure chronological or user chosen lists? (Netflix / Twitter)?
Answer: Essentially it just keeps you coming back for more. While you could cycle through Hulu alphabetically, there's a chance you don't want to watch 75% of what they have. You don't know exactly what you want to watch, but it's none of that garbage they're tossin at ya. You become fatigued and think, "man, am I really just gonna watch Seinfeld again? Hulu doesn't have any good stuff". You then search random stuff and wouldn't ya know it, they don't have any of that stuff! Over time this makes you think about your entertainment options and decide, Hulu isn't going to have anything, maybe I'll check out Netflix. This is bad for Hulu. 

So, they track you and find out what you like. The science isn't perfect yet but they can probably guess what you want to watch (or, see) before you do. This way, every time you go into the app, they're hiding all the options that you have no interest in, and all the stuff you (as they have surmised) like. This makes you come back more often because you're not wading through a bunch of crap. It feels tailored to you, without you even thinking about it. 

As far as "posts you may have missed" or "what's new/trending", it may be content they wish to promote, or as simple as advertising to you that it's not the same old stuff, there's a bunch of shiny new media to take in. You take in this new media, believe the app is providing you benefits, and for sites like IG or Twitter, you are branching out and following new people or sharing posts from accounts you didn't know, which keeps business booming. 

Sorry for the wall of text, and I'm by no means an expert, but I hope this answered your question. It's tangentially related to what I study, so I took an off the top whack at it.

Question: Considering that the Earth's atmosphere is more than 75% nitrogen, how do our lungs only breathe in oxygen without accidentally breathing in any of the other atmospheric gases?
Answer: In contrast with what a few people in this thread are saying, you do breath in nitrogen, CO2, radon, argon, and anything that is in the atmosphere near you, and it does enter your bloodstream. All gases are pulled into the lungs by decreasing the pressure in the lungs by increasing their volume. So now you have atmospheric air in your lungs, and all the gases dissolve into the blood based on their solubility. Because of hemoglobin, you have a huge amount of oxygen dissolve, and because of a change in pH in the lungs, you kick a ton of CO2 out of the blood into the space of the lungs. Now nitrogen does enter the lungs, but nitrogen gas is not overly soluble at 1 atmosphere, so only a little dissolves (same principle as pressurizing CO2 near a drink to carbonate it, you force extra in at higher pressures, but not a lot dissolves naturally). The Bends is a disease that occurs when using pressurized air at a higher pressure than 1 atmosphere. If you increase the pressure, you force a lot of nitrogen into the blood, and then when you decrease pressure quickly back to 1 atmosphere, the nitrogen is no longer soluble and becomes gas bubbles in your blood vessels. This can happen commonly among careless SCUBA divers. So your body does indeed absorb nitrogen from the atmosphere. Now on top of not pulling in a lot of nitrogen gas into the blood, N2, or diatomic nitrogen is the common form in the atmosphere, and it is highly stable. It is nearly impossible to get it to react spontaneously with anything. 

Now for the second part of your question, we do breath in other atmospheric gases. Nitrogen is 78% of our atmosphere and oxygen is 21% of our atmosphere. Together this is 99% of all the gases. Of the 1% left over, 93% of that is argon, a highly un-reactive and stable noble gas. Carbon dioxide is just 0.039% of the total atmosphere, so the amount you do not actually get any of this from the atmosphere, because in comparison with the amount in the blood entering the lungs from the body, it is nearly zero and so CO2 leaves the blood. However, if you artificially raise the atmospheric levels of CO2, then more will be retained in the blood and this can cause problems. For example, astronauts on the ISS and others space stations that do not sleep in a moving current of air will spend the evening exhaling CO2, but since there is no gravity, the CO2 will not sink or rise, it stays in an invisible little bubble around their head. This raises the local atmospheric concentration of CO2, and can cause very nasty headaches for them come "morning".

Source: Multiple chemistry and anatomy and physiology courses.

Question: why is consumption of meat bad for our climate/environment?
Answer: It isn't, really.

The _production_ of meat is problematic when done by people who care about the money but not the animals or environment at all.

But that can be said of anything left to the stewardship of the uncaring.

In resource management terms, eating meat takes ten times as much energy input to get the same food energy on the human plate. So a given range of land _might_ be able to feed ten people on non-meat versus one person on meat.

In practical terms, however, meat isn't that bad a deal as ruminants (cows, bison) and other meat animals (venison, goat, rabbit, pig) can eat much lower-quality fare. A cow can eat grass, and people can eat cows (eating the grass by proxy), but people cannot survive by eating grass. Repeat for things other than grass like ivy and nettles and such. The earth is full of plants that do very well in places, places that are not good for farming, but places that excel at producing plants that are not good human food, but do produce plants that are outstanding for the production of meat.

So you will hear vegetarians making a lot of hay (ha ha) about how meat is terrible and unsustainable. But trying to farm the average cow pasture to produce vegetables and legumes would likely destroy more than it saved. Farming is very intrusive and very tough on watersheds and soil integrity in a way that people with a particular agenda are very fond of ignoring.

So there are plenty of good ways to grow food animals.

But things like Smithfield Ham's disastrously irresponsible farming methods and virtual share-cropping are virtual crimes against animals, earth, and man.

But it's not the meat that's at fault, it's the profiteering dicks being dickish that are screwing the pooch here.

Question: Random flashes of light when my eyes are closed at night after going to bed.
Answer: You might want to get that checked out with an Opthalmologist. Seeing bright flashes of light inside your eyes is usually due to the retinal cells getting stimulated by movement or traction. Not keen on scare mongering, but in rare situations it can be a precursor to retinal detachment.

Question: Why are keyboards organized in a QWERTY format instead of alphabetically?
Answer: Because of typerwriters.

Back in the old days, the physical keys of the typewriter's keyboard were connected by steel prongs or wires to their corresponding letter-striker...thingie. Anyways, if you typed too quickly, neighboring keys had a tendency to get tangled up with each other. Thus the QWERTY design was made to try and separate the more commonly used letters to avoid this problem. Since typing is a learned skill, its too ingrained in the general populace to try and change it on a wide-scale.

Question: Why are martial arts practitioners taught to say "hi-ya!" or a similar phrase with every strike?
Answer: There are a lot of mystical/spiritual reasons for it, but mechanically speaking, it teaches breath control in an easy-to-remember way.

Question: Has Hacking Proven Password Encryption A Failure?
Answer: The hacked databases that have gotten huge media attention have not used advanced algorithms to protect the passwords. Linkedin used unsalted SHA-1, Adobe used DES encryption (not hashing), myspace used unsalted SHA-1 of the first 10 characters in lowercase, Badoo used unsalted MD-5, etc. We even know about a lot of sites that store the password in plain text. The only big breaches that have shown good password routines have been Dropbox with half in salted SHA-1 and half in Bcrypt (this was back in 2012) and tumblr with salted SHA-1.

Hacking have not shown any faults in passwords. It have uncovered some dangers in bad password storing practices, bad passwords and the dangers of using a single factor authentication. You could unlock similar faults with any authentication system no matter the way they authenticate. Passwords are safe but make sure you use a good password and use a password database to have strong unique password for each service. Where available use two factor authentification. If you are designing an authentification system make sure you store the passwords safely, allow the users to set complicated passwords and make two factor authentification available.

Question: Fiber Internet
Answer: Fiber optic internet works by shining a light down a long glass or plastic cylinder (fiber). The light reflects toward the center of the fiber because of the design and coating of the fiber. If you want a thorough explaination of the physics involved, r/askscience probably has some experts.

It is a very good form of fast internet in most cases.

You should look at it the same as any other Internet service though. 

How fast is the service? 
What is the cost?
What is their customer service like?
How reliable is the service?

All these issues are largely independent of the technology (fiber-optic vs copper wire), and will depend on the business practices of the company.

Question: How does the fridge stop your food from going bad?
Answer: Food going bad is a result of microorganisms. Most of them grow better in warm temperatures; a fridge cooling the food slows down their reproduction rate so the food will be edible longer.

Question: how liquid gets into your bladder, and why it seems faster when you're drinking beer
Answer: When you drink something, the liquid is absorbed by various parts of your digestive tract, primarily in the intestines. It then enters your blood. Excess water is removed from the blood with the Kidneys, which also remove other bad stuff at the same time. All this stuff they remove from your blood ends up in the bladder.

Alcohol is a diuretic; It reduces the release of [a hormone](_URL_0_) your body uses to regulate how much water there is in your blood. This makes your Kidneys think you have more water in your blood than you actually do, so they try to remove more of it.

Question: Why is it called a Chinese Fire Drill?
Answer: Copied from Wikipedia, because it explains it in fairly simple terms: 

“The term goes back to the early 1900s, and is alleged to have originated when a ship run by British officers and a Chinese crew practiced a fire drill for a fire in the engine room. The bucket brigade drew water from the starboard side, took it to the engine room, and poured it onto the 'fire'. To prevent flooding, a separate crew hauled the accumulated water from the engine room, up to the main deck and heaved the water over the port side. The drill had previously gone according to plan until the orders became confused in translation. The bucket brigade began to draw the water from the starboard side, run over to the port side and then throw the water overboard, bypassing the engine room completely.[2] Additionally, the term is documented to have been used in the U.S. Marine Corps during World War II, where it was often expressed in the phrase "as screwed up as a Chinese fire drill".[3] It was also commonly used by Americans during the Korean War and the Vietnam War.[4]

Historians trace Westerners' use of the word Chinese to denote "confusion" and "incomprehensibility" to the earliest contacts between Europeans and Chinese people in the 1600s, and attribute it to Europeans' inability to understand and appreciate China's radically different culture and world view.[5] In his 1989 Dictionary of Invective, British editor Hugh Rawson lists 16 phrases that use the word Chinese to denote "incompetence, fraud and disorganization".[6]”

Question: Why can't I remember being a baby?
Answer: Cognitive psychology student here:

To put it simply, you don't have the mechanisms that allow you to store and recall memories until you're around 3 1/2 years. Until that, you have what's called childhood amnesia. From that moment on, when you're 7-10 years old, you go through a period that's called reminiscence bump, when the majority of your childhood memories begin to form and stay with you all your life.

However, in extreme cases (e.g, birth of a brother, death of a grandparent) it has been proved that children under three years old can create and store that kind of autobiographic memory.

I don't know how much of this is suitable for a five year old, but i think you can understand.

Cheers!

Question: In the United States, at least, why is the recommended dosage in non-prescription drugs typically split into two groups: one for those under twelve and one for those over twelve years of age? Isn't there a better metric, such as body weight, by which to provide multiple recommended dosages?
Answer: Non-prescription drugs have a lot of latitude in dosage levels before they become dangerous. You're supposed to give your kid a 5mL teaspoon of cough syrup and you give them a 15mL tablespoon instead, three times as much. It ain't gonna hurt them.

Recommended dosage levels inherit that flexibility. They're guidelines, not rigid definitions of EXACT amounts. So the guideline for the target receiver based on age can be similarly general, even if the child's weight differs a fair amount. 

Plus, age is *easy*. You don't have to weigh someone, you don't have to specify whether they have clothes on or not while being weighed, you don't have to calculate anything. So the guidelines based on that are precise enough for non-prescription drugs. You'll get a "close enough" dosage in most cases to achieve the desired effect while not being dangerous to you.

If the drug was dangerous in non-precise amounts, or its exact dosage levels were critically important to achieve an effect, they wouldn't sell it as a non-prescription drug and would control it through prescriptions issued by a medical authority who can better decide the precise dosage based on your weight, age, BMI, conflicting conditions, and other factors.

Question: What exactly are hashtags and how do they work?
Answer: Well, if reddit worked like twitter, and I wrote **"#PutinFartsOnABear,"** then the hashtagged word would act like a link, showing you all the other submissions that include that hashtag. 

It also helps track and catalog what people's tweets or facebook posts are about, and so you can see if a topic is "trending" greatly or not.

Question: Where did the myth that police have to tell you they're police if you ask them come from?
Answer: Police are allowed to commit a very large variety of activities that would otherwise be considered crimes.


The need to maintain cover is huge. They can move drugs, smuggle them. Launder money, as long as they are doing it within the scope of their undercover operation. They can do drugs if it's required to maintain cover. The moment it is something outside the scope of the operation it becomes illegal for them to do it.


About the only thing they can't do is cause permanent injury, kill someone, or cause large scale damage like burning a place down.

Question: What is the "Faerie" lifestyle?
Answer: Bro... from one man to another, bail.  You're heading down a rabbit hole you don't want to go down.

To answer your question, your friend is what is known as an "otherkin".  Popular among Tumblr users, it's a term used to describe people who really truly believe they are not human, at least on the inside.  Most people use it for animals, but really anything goes.

Snowflake syndrome, that's all it really is.

Question: The power of a Filibuster in the U.S. senate
Answer: In the U.S. Senate, a filibuster is basically a block.  A Senator can speak for as long as they want on whatever they want before a bill is voted on.  That means that the bill can't pass until that Senator is done speaking.  Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't.  But filibusters almost always draw a lot of attention, because it's essentially a Senator protesting the passage of a bill.  Filibusters are very narratively interesting.

Sometimes it's even the thought of a filibuster that will cause problems.  Especially because you need 3/5ths of Senators (right now that's 60 out of 100 total Senators) to vote down a filibuster.  When news pundits talk about a "filibuster-proof majority", they mean that the majority can do what they want  &  also strike down a lengthy protest.

Longest filibuster in history was thanks to Strom Thurmond, who was filibustering the passage of the 1957 Civil Rights Act.  He stood up and spoke for 24 hours and 18 minutes straight.  It'd be impressive if it wasn't so terribly racist.  He lost that one (thankfully).

A more recent one that made the news was in the Texas State Senate.  [State Senator Wendy Davis](_URL_0_) filibustered a bill that would severly limit abortions.  It made the news because there was a picture of her in what are now called ["her filibuster sneakers"](_URL_1_), and because she was a Texas Democrat that was making a point.  She lost that one too.

But interesting narratives are important in politics.  Just because the filibuster itself may not have the power to stop that bill, it can bring a LOT of attention to something.  It's basically a Senator's bully pulpit.  In 2013, the entire nation knew that something was up in Texas.  Even if Wendy Davis lost that particular fight, she  &  that issue gained national attention.

Question: The "gravitational slingshot" effect or maneuver.
Answer: Although it's not very safe, sometimes a person riding on a bike will reach out and grab onto the side of a moving car, and let the car pull their bike up to a faster speed.

The gravitational slingshot can work similarly, except instead of the spaceship holding onto the planet with a hand or other physical connection, it lets the planet's gravity "grab" it and pull it along for a while.

Question: Why haven't we agreed on a standard shoe size measurement (and other clothing articles) for the whole world when we have the Metric or Imperial system of measurement?
Answer: The main reason is switching cost. This doesn’t necessarily need to be monetary, though that can certainly be a factor. People are set in there ways and are resistant to changing a system they are familiar with. This is why people on iPhones don’t like switching to Android, and vice versa.

That being said, there are some shoes/boots that do have a (mostly) universal sizing system. Ski boots! They have an identical system across the board because they need to fit into bindings a certain way, and if ski techs had to memorize a thousand different systems, people would be breaking legs all up and down the mountain(more so than they currently do).

Question: Two mirrors.
Answer: The mirrors do not perfectly reflect and if you were in such a room then you would also be absorbing some amount of light.  Thus, the real question becomes how fast does the light fade.  We can intuitively see that it will fade more slowly than a room with no mirrors.

To run some math, the best mirror I can find reference to has a reflectivity of 99.9999%.  Note that this is *far* better than a typical household mirror and it only achieves that reflectivity for a narrow band of colors (i.e. frequencies or wavelengths).  If we want to know the time it takes for 99% of the light to be absorbed then that is simply solving the equation:  .999999^N = .01.  For this we get an answer that N = 4.605 \*10^6 .   If we take a reasonable room size (erring on the size of larger) then it is perhaps 20 meters in length (call this D).  Over the N reflections the light would therefore travel N \* D meters, or 9.21 \* 10^7.  This is still less than 1/3 the distance light would travel in a vacuum, but the value was obtained using the most optimistic values throughout the whole calculation.  If you could construct such an idealized room and then manage to make your influence on the room in order to observe it as minimal as possible then you might get a decay that is on a time scale of human reaction.

Practically speaking one would be lucky to get a mirror at 99% reflectivity.  Such a mirror would make N = 458, making the total distance only about 10 kilometers.  This is about 3.336 \* 10^-5 seconds at the speed of light and far too fast to be mind-blowingly fun.  If you constructed your hypothetical room at a reasonable size and from reasonable materials then you would experience darkness essentially as soon as the light was turned off (far faster than your reaction time, to say the least).

Question: How do LiDAR sensors work? Wouldn't they just be overwhelmed by all the natural light?
Answer: They use very bright IR lasers, which you can't see because they're outside the visible spectrum.

The LIDAR can easily see the spot from its laser - it's no different than using a [bright laser pointer](_URL_1_).

Combine that with an extremely [aggressive filter](_URL_0_) on the lens and it's not much of a problem.  

Edit: there are other tricks you can do as well. For example, you can gate the sensor, such that only returns in a certain window are accepted (get back too early or too late and the return is rejected as spurious). Or you could code the laser pulses, so only returns which match the signature of the laser pulses are accepted. Either way, visibility isn't much of an issue.

Question: Why are no countries boycotting the 2022 FIFA World Cup despite the corruption and even though people were exploited and died building the stadiums?
Answer: Because everyone still loves the World Cup. 

Also, this:

 > people were exploited and died building the stadiums?

is false. People *are still being exploited and dying*, because the stadiums won't be complete for another six years. The death toll of the 2022 World Cup is expected to top 500,000 Qatar slaves.

Question: Why is it some learn faster than others by reading?
Answer: The point of schooling is not "to learn things" but "to learn how to learn." When you go out and find a job, you'll find that most of the content you learned in school would not apply at all. You will have to use your skill in learning new things to adapt to all the new content you need to absorb.

That said, the guy in your class probably has mastered the most efficient way of learning for him. He can probably organize all the content in the text in his mind or on paper while he is reading.

But for you, it might not work the same way. Every person has a different type of learning style and it takes a lot of trial and error to discover it. I, myself, learn very well when I am taking notes during a lecture because it mentally scribes all the content to my brain. Other people study well in groups by bouncing concepts back and forth to reinforce them. Some other people can write all the things they learned in the form of questions so they can quiz themselves later on. There are multiple ways of learning but some will work better than others for you.

Remember, don't just study hard, study smart. This means to be the most efficient with your study so try new studying techniques until you find something that just clicks. Once you do, then you can be "that guy" in class that doesn't appear to study hard (because you already tried very hard to learn your studying style).

Question: Why has The Avengers movie been released in several major countries before its release in the United States?
Answer: So far as I know, it's to reduce piracy.  
Countries like NZ often have to wait to see movies months after they screen in the US and this provides a window for piracy that can't be closed by lawyers.  If they release movies in non-US countries first then they only have to worry about piracy in the US and that's a scenario in which their lawyers are actually useful.

Question: What is a Physician Assistant (PA) compared to a doctor or nurse?
Answer: A PA, or a Nurse-Practitioner (similar concept) is somewhere between a nurse and a doctor in terms of training and education.  For a lot of the things you typically go see a doctor for - strep throat, cold/flu, ear/sinus infection, pink eye, bronchitis, etc - you really don't need someone with 10 years of medical training to diagnose and treat.  It's more efficient and cost-effective to use someone with less training do deal with these "entry-level" type problems, while the doctor can focus on more specialized or complex cases.

In many states PA/NP can only practice under the supervision of a physician.  Laws may also limit what types of treatment they can perform and what medications they can prescribe.

Question: When we have those dreams that we're falling, why does it feel like we actually fall into the bed?
Answer: It's because when you're muscles are relaxed, sometimes the brain messes up and thinks that relaxed muscles mean you're falling instead of resting

Question: The Wagon-wheel effect.
Answer: It's easiest to visualise in terms of a camera watching it rather than the human eye, so I'll use that example to start.

Imagine a camera which takes 12 photos each second. We then draw a line down from the edge to the centre of the wheel so we know where the "start" is. If it does a rotation/second then each photo will show that line progressing 1/12th of the way around. (ie, first to 1 then 2 then 3 etc on a clock)

If it does 5 rotations/second, then the line will appear first at 5, then at 10, then at 3 and so on.

If it does 6 rotations each second, then every photo will show that spoke going 1/2 the way around. ie, it'll either appear at 12 or 6 (on a clock face diagram) in each photo.

If however it goes 7 rotations/second, then the line will appear first at 7, then at 2, then at 9 and so on. These positions are the same angle as those at 5, but on the *opposite* side of of the clockface diagram each time. Thus the wheel appears to be moving backwards.

The effect is even more noticeable when the wheel is doing 11 rotations/second. First it goes to 11, then 10, then 9 and so on. The wheel appears to rotate backwards in the photos, even though it is actually moving forward much faster than it is when it rotates at 1/second.


In practice most cameras operate at 24frames per second, and wheels are often completing multiple rotations a second. At certain speeds however the effect will occur (it is also known as the *strobe effect* (where a flashing light makes things appear to freeze)). The "refresh rate" of the human eye is faster still, and a lot more complicated, but at certain speeds the effect occurs and the wheel appears to go backwards.

Question: Why did Ted Cruz ask those students to text "Constitution" to 33733?
Answer: It's a way for his campaign to identify potential supporters. Presumably people who text back are those who are both interested in politics and potential supporters of his. It's good to identify and engage with those people early. They are more likely to vote, more likely to donate money, and more likely to get others involved.

Question: Once and for all, is The Pirate Bay legal, and if it isn't how does it remain online?
Answer: There is no global law covering The Pirate Bay and similar sites.

Even if, for example, it's illegal in the USA, it might be legal in Sweden.

If there is even a single country where it is legal, it can be hosted in and operated from said country, and then there is no mechanism to take it offline entirely.

As for whether it's legal in any *given* country, legal opinions differ.  Because it doesn't actually *host* any copyrighted content (.torrent files are effectively links to links (that is, indirect links) to content, not the content itself - and TPB doesn't even host *those* any more, just Magnet links, which are *links* to links to links to content), it's difficult to prove that its operators are breaking copyright law.  On the other hand, it is clear that copyright law *is being broken by __someone__*, and torrent-search sites are facilitating this, so the question becomes one of finding a basis for applying legal culpability to the website's owners, operators, and/or Internet service providers.

Question: What's currently happening on Brazil?
Answer: A couple things, really. 

The President and many members of the government are in deep trouble for something involving Petrobras — they are accused of taking bribes, etc. and this issue specifically is very divisive so I won't take a side. 

Then there's the fact that they have really bad economic problems, and they still have lots of poverty, but they decided to hold the Olympics and World Cup which despite boosting the economy, does nothing to help the massive poverty problem.

After the Panama papers, top politicians in Brazil were caught doing…the whole thing, but while this isn't specific to Brazil, it does help contribute to the feeling that the government and society is falling apart. 

The problems are unique to Brazil, but the situation isn't really that different from the rest of the world. I can't really give an input on what's actually happening since I'm relatively well-off financially and not from Brazil (lots of googling and passive information) but it seems that it's just yet another situation where people are getting tired of the elites becoming richer while everyone is getting poorer.

Question: - Why when people sneeze it’s out of their mouth, but your body is trying to get something out of your nose?
Answer: I've wondered about that too.  I think it has something to do with your nasal passages not being able to handle such a big blast of air, so most of it has to come from our mouths.  Maybe sneezes aren't meant to get something out of our nose as much as they're meant to protect the more vital parts of our respiratory system, and our noses serve as a warning that bad things are in the air.  But it does help your nose, because it makes the tickle go away.

Question: Now that net neutrality rules go into effect today, how does that affect the average person?
Answer: It's still being argued in court.  The only real effect of the change is the structure of the court arguments shifted to one that enables more government regulation of fairness.  

The average person won't know the effects until the court cases shake out, give it 2-3 years and ask again.  Sorry, the world of government regulations doesn't move a Internet speed.

Question: - Could we only eat exactly what our bodies need, and never poop?
Answer: > Poop is just waste, right?

Wrong.  Or at least, poop is not just undigested food.  Feces contain various other biological waste products that we can't stop producing.  Things like bile, and broken-down, dead red blood cells.  Plus, roughly 40% of feces consist of dead bacteria:  You have **tons** of bacteria living in your intestines, helping you extract nutrients from food.  As those bacteria die, they get expelled.

Question: Reddit has made Bernie Sanders look like the perfect candidate. Can someone explain some of his generally negative views?
Answer: He is anti-science.. He moved to ban substances in plastic containers that were safe and the replacements are less safe. He is also a GMO scare monger looking to confuse the public into believing GMOs are unsafe. Additionally, he has sponsored a bill to treat veterans with "alternate" medicine rather than scientifically proven healthcare. 

His economic views can also be considered dangerous if you are someone who cares about debt and fiscal responsibility.

Question: How can massive contributions to a political campaign affect the outcome of an election even when an opponent holds the majority of voters?
Answer: Logically it can't if those voters have already voted or if they're totally decided, but a good proportion of the electorate is undecided or on the fence. Who they vote for can often come down to who puts out the best image and which candidate does a better job of "reaching" them.

Question: What is cardiovascular endurance, what happens within your body when you gain it, and what happens when you lose it.
Answer: Cardiovascular endurance refers to how efficiently your cardiovascular system can absorb oxygen (and expel carbon dioxide) and deliver it to tissues throughout the body. 

When you "gain" endurance, you're just working out the heart like any other muscle. Instead of lifting weights, you're running, walking, cycling, and anything else that is considered aerobic exercise. After awhile, just like skeletal muscles, the heart and blood vessels become stronger. This means they can push more blood throughout the body without doing a ton of work. effectively delivering oxygen to skeletal muscles. 

Losing it is fairly self explanatory. Just like skipping the gym for a couple of weeks, you will see a loss in muscle mass and strength. The heart is the same, in that sedentary activity does nothing to promote cv endurance, and so the heart and vessels will have to work harder to move blood throughout the body, which is less efficient.

Question: How do scuba divers ascend/descend?
Answer: They wear a device called a BC (for buoyancy control).

Usually it is a sort of vest with an inflatable bladder inside.  Air from the tanks is redirected to the bladder to make the diver more buoyant, and released to make them less.

Divers also typically wear weights to ensure they can sink if necessary, and that be released in an emergency.

Question: When markets crash, where does all the money go?
Answer: It was never there to begin with.

Say Jon has 50 shares in Company inc.. On the market, these 50 shares are worth $500, because lots of people want to pay $10 for a share in Company inc.

But Jon doesn't have $500. Jon has 50 shares.

Suddenly, news breaks that the CEO of Company inc. makes all of her major business decisions by rolling a set of dice. People worry that this will eventually drive Company inc. into the ground, and so people don't want to pay as much for a share in Company inc.

Jon still has 50 shares. But now Jon's shares are only worth $2 each.

Multiple this scenario by a few hundred million and you have a stock market crash.

Question: Can someone explain to me what's the issue with Obama and drone strikes? And why what he said in Prague about nuclear weapons is so frowned upon?
Answer: I don't know much about the topic, but one of the issues with drone strikes is that how we classify the victims of the strikes is woefully inadequate and misleading:

_URL_3_
_URL_2_
_URL_1_

Essentially, Obama changed the definition of "militant" in drone strikes to be incredibly wide to the point where if you or I were there, we would be classified as one. 

Leaked documents have shown that as many as 90% of the deaths in drone strikes are unintentional, innocent people:

_URL_0_

Question: Why certain factions of Israel's leadership believe that settlements are necessary for Israeli safety.
Answer: If you stand in parts of the settlements, known as Judea  &  Samaria, you can look over Israel completely and see the sea. If the Israelis don't have access to the settlements, then their enemies could easily fire down on the Israeli population. 

So it's a security issue for many.

Question: The different Dimensions relative to our own.
Answer: Don't let anybody fool you into thinking this is more complicated than it is. The word "dimension" simply refers to a number you use to identify a point.

Here we've got a straight line. How can I pick a point on that line, then give you sufficient information to find exactly the same point? Well, we'll start by agreeing upon an arbitrarily chosen point of origin, then I can just tell you how far to the left or right of that point of origin my chosen point is. If I tell you that my point is three feet to the right of the point of origin, then you have all the information you need to find that point. We might even establish a kind of shorthand, where if I say "3" you know I mean "the point three feet to the right of the point of origin," or if I say "minus 4" I mean "the point four feet to the left of the point of origin." In this way, we can *uniquely identify a point* using just a single number.

But if we wanted to talk instead about points in a *plane,* we'd need *two* numbers to identify them. We could choose to use more, of course, but that'd just be wasteful, as we can uniquely identify points in a plane using just two numbers.

If we were talking about points in a volume, we'd need to use no fewer than *three* numbers to identify them. However we choose to identify the points — distances along mutually perpendicular axes, angles measured from some reference direction, whatever — we'd need no fewer than three numbers to uniquely identify a chosen point.

The *dimensionality* of a space, then, is how many numbers you need *at minimum* to uniquely identify a point in that space.

That's all it means. It doesn't mean anything else.

Question: Is lava sticky?
Answer: I can't answer if it's sticky, but you don't have to be sticky to be viscous.  Just as one example gear oil is quite viscous without being sticky, it's especially thick when cold and since it's a lubricant is the definition of not sticky.

Question: in Great Britain, what does the power differential look like between the Monarchy, Parliament, and the Prime Minister?
Answer: The Monarch has, in effect, no legal power at all.  In theory they can withhold their Royal Assent to a law, but in practice if they did so it would make the abolition of the monarchy much more likely, so they don't.  Any stated political positions of the monarch would probably have significant impact one way or another, but the reigning Queen tries to avoid taking public stances (she makes an annual speech, but this is written for her by the government, and most people know this) so this doesn't really come up.  There are, as noted in further comments below, various other powers of the monarch which are used "on the advice of the Prime Minister" - which essentially makes them powers of Parliament or the PM which happen to have to go through the monarch, so again, not effective personal powers.

Law-making power rests with Parliament.  The Prime Minister also leads the party (or coalition) which controls the most seats in the Commons, so they have considerable influence here, but it is Parliament that actually writes and votes on laws.

The Prime Minister's power is significant, but mostly indirect.  They choose the Cabinet, thereby determining which MPs will head the various Ministries, and they have major input on the makeup of various committees.  The *effect* is that much of the lawmaking *agenda* is filtered through the PM - though this is far from absolute.

Question: How this battery train experiment works?
Answer: [This](_URL_0_) should help you out...people on a physics forum explaining it pretty simply

EDIT: Aww hell, I guess I'll copy/paste the answer here...

 >  If you run a current through a coil; it generates an magnetic field inside the coil [like this](_URL_1_)

 >  If the field lines are exactly parallel a bar magnet will feel no net force. However at the ends of the coil, where the field lines diverge, a bar magnet will be either pulled into the coil or pushed out of the coil depending on which way round you insert it.

 >  The trick in the video is that the magnets are made of a conducting material and they connect the battery terminals to the copper wire, so the battery, magnets and copper wire make a circuit that generates a magnet field just in the vicinity of the battery. The geometry means the two magnets are automatically at the ends of the generated magnetic field, where the field is divergent, so a force is exerted on the magnets.

 >  The magnets have been carefully aligned so the force on both magnets points in the same direction, and the result is that the magnets and battery move. But as they move, the magnetic field moves with them and you get a constant motion.

 >  If you flipped round the two magnets at the ends of the battery the battery and magnets would move in the reverse direction. If you flipped only one magnet the two magnets would then be pulling/pushing in opposite directions and the battery wouldn't move.

Question: What exactly are TOPS for college.
Answer: TOPS is a program in Louisiana that offers free college tuition to students who meet a certain GPA and ACT requirement. It was started by Patrick Taylor, a rich oil man, and now the Louisiana government pays for it. Tuition for private school is not free, but you get some money towards private school tuition as well. Course, GPA and ACT requirements can be seen [here](_URL_0_)

Question: What is the difference between an irrational number and a transcendental number?
Answer: >  All transcendental numbers are irrational. not all irrational numbers are transcendental.

 >  Trancendental numbers cannot be written as roots of polynomials 



Eli6:

Irrational numbers are a class of numbers that are (among other things) defined by the fact that you cannot represent them as a ratio of integers. 

Transcendental numbers are a class of numbers that are defined by the fact they are not algebraic. 

algebraic numbers are numbers that can be written as a root of a polynomial with rational coefficients: So any number that can be represented as the answer (x) to an equation of the form

a + bx + cx^2 + dx^3 + ex^4 + fx^5 ... + ðx^n = 0

Where the coefficients a,b,c,d,e....ð are all rational numbers.


So, root 2 is irrational, but it is algebraic because it is the answer to the equation

x^2 = 2

and thus is not transcendental. 

Similarly the more or less random number  ~ 1.27367020598447 is also not trancendental, because it is a valid solution to the equation

 x^4 + 5x - 9

 ( ~1.273...^4 + 5(~1.2736..) - 9= 0 )

Trancendental numbers like pi can't be written as solutions to equations of this form. They will always need at least one irrational number as a coefficient to be written like this.

Question: Why does it burn if you burp through your nose after drinking something carbonated?
Answer: They contain small amounts of carbonic acid and there will be some of this left in the gas that you release. Your nose is far more sensitive to such things than your mouth is, so you feel the acid burning more than your mouth.

You can test this with a green chili. Place one on your tongue and place one up your nose and see which one is worse.

Question: Why are GPU clock speeds soo much lower than CPU clock speeds.
Answer: They have very different architectures and are built for different purposes. Generally, GPU clocks are set as high as it is viable as well (limited by chip quality, required power, generated heat)... but asking why they are at such different levels is more or less like asking why bike engines and tractors operate at such different RPM. They might be slower, but not exactly "worse" - they are both good at what they were built for, but would most likely suck trying to do tasks of the other. They are both engines, but not very similar in design and built for very different purposes.

Question: How is the TV rating calculated?
Answer: They don't.  They use sampling of a select few and project that out to the whole population.

They will often use [Nielsen Ratings](_URL_0_) which will connect a device to a television to record their viewing habits.

Question: What do some people find appealing in communism?
Answer: What do you mean by "communism"?

The actual definition of the term is of a society in which there are no class distinctions and no money, and the means of production are accessible to everyone. In this idyllic world, everyone is equal, everyone co-operates to produce exactly what we need when we need it, nobody needs to fight a war, nobody needs to be jealous of another's income, there is no crime (because everyone has what they need, when they need) and we all live among fluffy little bunny-rabbits and rainbows and unicorns. This is actually a very attractive scenario, but reaching that goal is going to be about as likely as finding scientific evidence for the existence of leprachauns, so don't hold your breath.

If you mean dictatorships that *call* themselves "communist", such as North Korea, then the very easy answer to that question is: Nobody, except the ruling elite of North Korea and some clueless westerners who have no idea what they're talking about.

Not that the North Koreans deliberately built that kind of society for themselves. The best-known allegory of this style of communism is Orwell's "Animal Farm": the animals (representing the Russian people) usurped their corrupt and cruel farmer (the Tsar), and initially things seem to improve -- they work together to run the farm, plant crops and so on, but of their own volition instead of being beaten into submission. But the pigs, who as the most intelligent have assumed leadership, become increasingly power-hungry -- not overnight, but slowly, bit by bit -- until they end up just as bad, if not worse, than the cruel farmer they'd thrown out.

If by "communism" you mean attempts by governments to regulate the market and redistribute wealth, there are many, many models for that and none of them are actually communist. Generally, this doesn't get much further than a sort of "socialism lite". The attraction here is that in our western societies, wealth is clearly concentrated in the hands of a privileged few: in the US, the richest 1% own more wealth than the 95% poorest. Most people consider that to be grossly unfair, and so argue for ways to correct this.

Ultimately, the term "communist" has different meanings depending on who you're talking to and, to an extent, what their personal biases are.

Question: If a US soldier dies in another country and he is a donor, will his/her organs be donated or discarded?
Answer: Yes, if viable the persons organs can/are be donated. However I did some googling and I found that it's pretty unlikely the organs can reach the patient in time. The heart is viable for 4-6 hours if kept on ice, with the liver ideally no longer than 12 but viable for up to 16 hours.

The organs would never make it back to the states I checked the non-stop flight time itself from Saudi Arabia to New York being 12 hours. Medical bases in Europe would be a viable option.

Question: How to temperature guns work in order to get the temperature of a surface?
Answer: Next time you turn on your stove, you might notice that the burner turns red as it heats up.

That's because increasing the temperature of an object causes it to radiate energy.

Now, for most objects, increasing the temperature of an object over the comfortable range for human beings doesn't change the energy it emits as visible light.  Your burner had to get pretty hot before it started glowing red.

But infrared light is emitted by most objects based on even relatively low temperatures.  So if you want to see how hot an object is, all you need to do is look at it in the infrared spectrum.

You can't see in the infrared spectrum.  But your temperature gun can, so all it does is measure the luminosity of an infrared emitter - the object you're pointing it at.

Question: How come I'm well-rested after sleeping from 3 to 12, but when I fall asleep at 12 and wake up at 9, I feel like hell?
Answer: You can read up on Circadian Rhythm and REM Cycles for a more detailed explanation, but the simple answer is the your body gets used to a certain sleep wake cycle based on your habits and environment. When that cycle gets broken, by going to sleep too early or too late, or sleeping to long or to little, it can cause fatigue since you will be awake when your body is expecting you to be asleep or vice versa. That may cause you to feel tired after you sleep for a long time or find yourself unable to sleep through the night if you go to sleep too early.

Question: How Google stores caches of so many websites
Answer: There are a few methods that Google uses.

The primary one is that Google spends plenty on continually adding more servers, server space, and improving their ability to manage that ever-growing space.

Also, copies of crawled websites compress better than many types of data. Google once released that they're able to compress crawled websites to an average of 11% of their uncompressed size.

[There's also this theory of where they get all that server space.](_URL_0_) ;)

Question: Why is it bad that Rachel Dolezal identifies as black even though she's apparently white?
Answer: The thing about race is that there's virtually no difference in brain chemistry or anything like that between races. Identifying as a different gender, for instance, is different, where actual physiological differences might come into play. Race identification is a very superficial thing, genetically, and plays more into culture and society - the genetic differences are often greater between two people of the same race than two people of different races.

The way society views you as being part of a particular race is mostly external. Rachel Dolezal spent most of her life as clearly a white person, so she didn't get the societal impact of being black. Now, there's no reason an NAACP officer can't be a white person, but lying about it is different, and there's no indication she genuinely identified as black (and she even took steps to cloud her history to make people think she had a black father, for instance). A white person can fight for racial equality, but intentionally obfuscating her life experiences is something else.

Question: Why do countries like China, Japan, and Korea test so much higher than the U.S. in math, science, and reading. Having recognized this, why doesn't the U.S. implement similar teaching styles?
Answer: It is more down to the parents valuing education especially in mathematics and sciences than to a difference in teaching methods, though valuing teachers as a resource is less regarded in the USA than Asia.

Question: The difference in natural sugar you find in fruit and refined sugar?
Answer: There is no chemical difference.  When you eat fruit, you're eating sugar embedded in a plant, and so you digest it more slowly (good), and you take in all the other stuff in the plant (fiber, protein, interesting chemicals from the plant like estrogens).

There's a lot of evidence that eating fruit is good for you.  Eating only or primarily fruit will usually make you sick (diarrhea, etc) because you get too much sugar and fiber-- but that's not something that usually happens because you'll probably get tired of eating fruit before you get there.

On the other hand, people don't get tired of eating sugar before it makes them very sick, including diabetes.

Question: Why do our pets like being stroked and cuddled?
Answer: Probably because they're covered in hair, you know how your ball hair itches sometimes and it feels good to scratch it? Times that by 1000. They're basically big walking ballbags.

Question: how every lock and key in the world is made to be unique with no duplicates
Answer: They aren't, there are lots of duplicates out there

Schlage house locks are very common, their keys come with a 5 or 6 digit code on them. Best case that gives you a million key combos. Not nearly enough to make every lock unique, but plenty to make it unlikely a random person has the same key as you

Security is designed to make access more difficult so people don't try, it is never perfect and always accepts certain weak points that are too expensive to fix

Question: What happens if the CA drought continues and we run out of water?
Answer: In the event that the drought continues, water will be re-prioritized for human consumption (as opposed to agriculture, which is the vast majority of water usage at the moment) [Irrigation of Agricultural Crops - Department of Land, Air, and Water Resources](_URL_1_). If the drought further continues and water storage runs dry, it is likely that a state of emergency will be declared and FEMA and the Federal government will start trucking water from elsewhere in the US to supply population centers. It is likely that, at this point, desalinization will become further adopted by the state.

[A new plant has been constructed near San Diego](_URL_0_) and is likely going to be the start of a trend in the state.

Question: How can someone wake up from a brain injury and suddenly be able to speak a foreign language?
Answer: When this has been reported, what is often glossed over is the fact that these people could always speak the language. The brain learns and stores your first language differently to your subsequent languages. So it's possible for the first language to be lost or suppressed independently of other languages by certain brain traumas. When this happens the first language will usually eventually return. 

"Woman wakes from coma speaking French" is much more dramatic than "Woman who could already speak both English and French wakes from coma having difficulty with English but French is ok but the English comes back in a day or two." 

Believe nothing you read in the Huffington Post.

Question: It has been said that America's debt to other countries has its pros and cons. Obviously it's bad because we owe over $18 trillion, but why could this debt benefit them?
Answer: > America's debt to other countries has its pros and cons. Obviously it's bad because we owe over $18 trillion

That's not correct. While the federal debt is at 18 trillion, we do not owe 18 trillion to foreign countries. The vast, vast majority of the debt is held internally, by the American government or American investors.

I'll go into the negatives of the debt. Sovereign debt does not quite work like personal debt. Not at all.

First, we do not ask other countries for their money. *They* choose to buy treasury bonds, because they believe in the strength of the dollar.

Second, owning debt does not give any power over the U.S. Treasury bonds give set amounts of interests at set times. The owner of the debt cannot request their money back. It will be payed out in the time set when they bought it, and that's that. 

Third, the United States does not have to pay back its debt in its entirety. Only the interest. And we do a fucking good job of that, having never officially missed a payment. As long as our GDP grows at a similar rate to our debt, the actual number may as well be irrelevent.

You can get into more about how important the debt is, how it backs the dollar, etc. 

But it's very important, and in fact, if we were to have the entire debt payed off, it would be rather catastrophic for our and the world economy.

Question: ETMLI5 why churches/religious buildings in the United States get property tax exemptions?
Answer: religious institutions are not-for-profit 501c(3) institutions, just like the YMCA or Duck's Unlimited or other non-profits.

a nonprofit's income and profit (often through donations, although they can still charge their members) is legally supposed to go toward the betterment of the organization's mission or the general benefit of the community. the profit can't go for bonuses for employees or board members.

and this is exactly what churches do. you don't have to donate to them if you don't want to. sure, a person like Joel Osteen makes a huge salary from his church, and that's because he's able to raise a heck of a lot of money. 

a nonprofit is different than a regular for-profit business, because if a for-profit business does well, some of that profit goes to board members or other stakeholders (increase in share price).

Question: Why is third party software "locked" to certain operating systems?
Answer: The operating system, among other things, provides an interface for programs to the hardware and usually other stuff like the means to make a window, put buttons in it, render things, etc. There's no cross-platform interface for all this that exists natively on all OSes except kind of ChromeOS and FirefoxOS which are bascially just an OS that does nothing but runs a browser. If you don't want your app to be broswer-based, there's not much you can really do to support all of the systems. (If browser-based is fine, though, you're pretty much good to go on all systems.)

This is especially true in the case of games where most games want to use the DirectX graphics library to provide its various drawing abilities, but DirectX is an MS exclusive. OpenGL is on all systems, but not as often used.

Question: If you held a pair of prescription glasses in front of a camera and recorded something, how would it appear when playing it back? Would some people see it blurry and others see it clear?
Answer: No, because the camera sensor becomes the "eye", and the lens is the optic in front of it. If you put another optic in front of it, you're only changing the light hitting the sensor. You cannot change the optics in front of the eyes of the person watching the screen. Take a quick look at what [circles of confusion](_URL_0_) are. It should become clear how this would only affect the camera's image sensor.

Question: How do people afford lawyers?
Answer: What truetofiction said is idiotic. I am not sure why people feel the need to comment when they have no idea what they are talking about. His first sentence is so insanely wrong that it hurts my head. 

I am an attorney so here goes. Tort law in the United States is based on common law and is derived from hundreds of years of judge made law. The vast majority of tort law in this country has to do with personal injury law. Tort law involves other areas of course like libel, slander, defamation, etc. but this is not relevant to the question. Tort reform is only aimed at limiting the amount plaintiffs can recover it has absolutely nothing to do with people being able to afford legal counsel.  

Personal injury attorneys work on a contingency fee basis. This means that they only get paid when their client gets paid. There are no upfront costs to this representation. The standard is 33% of the settlement and more if the case proceeds to trial. Tort reform has absolutely NOTHING to do with people being unable to afford counsel. Tort reform is simply a way for insurance companies to limit their liability by capping the amount plaintiffs are able to win at trial. This increases their profits. I am staunchly against tort reform and believe in most cases it is an unconstitutional violation of the 7th Amendment right to a jury trial. 

Litigation is of course expensive and so are good attorneys. However, in short, people (usually corporations) who get themselves into legal trouble involving large sums of money are the same types of "people" who have a lot of money to begin with and can afford good legal counsel. They take calculated risks with their money and use their attorneys accordingly. They can either afford attorneys and make good business decisions or they can't and they lose at trial and eventually go out of business for their business decisions. Gateway computers is a textbook example of this happening. Their "shrink wrap" contracts and underhanded business dealings cost them millions in court costs litigating an issue that they deserved to lose.  

Typically trials do not even last a full day and they do not cost very much money. It is very rare for a civil trial to go on longer than a week. People other than the super rich cannot afford many months of legal services if the services are not based on contingency fees. Divorces can last awhile but typically family law attorneys do not charge a great deal of money. Criminal cases can last months but usually this happens in capital punishment cases and either the accused has done whatever it takes to pay for a good attorney or the defendant gets an amazing criminal defense attorney who only litigates capital defense cases because they are opposed to the death penalty.

Public defenders only defend indigent criminal defendants. This is a constitutional requirement after the SCOTUS case Gideon v. Wainwright. There is no right to free legal counsel in civil trials. I am not really sure how to answer your question pertaining to PD work because I am not sure what you are asking. There are literally hundreds of different areas of law and experts in every field. This is why there are so many attorneys. From admiralty and bankruptcy to personal injury and intellectual property just to name a few areas. 

This is all of course very simplified and I could go on for pages about this. If you have any further questions I would be happy to entertain them.

Question: what is the purpose of a RAID storage?
Answer: There are many types of RAID storage,

#1. Stripe or  RAID-0, when you have to matching sized drives and data is split evenly on both drives. when you have one drive pulling half a photo and another pulling the other half, data gets to the ram/cpu in less time than would be for a single drive to deliver the file. 2 or more drives needed. Matching drive size not usually needed as smaller drive will be the starting point. If one drive fails in this setup data is lost since half of the data is one one drive and half on the other. **Its like removing the peanut butter side of a pb & j sandwich. not pretty.**

#2. Mirroring or RAID-1, its exactly as it sounds, a duplicate copy of every file is made on a secondary drive. if the primary were to fail it automatically switches over to the backup/mirrored drive. 2 or more drives needed. matching size is ideal but smaller drive size will be used as primary drive size. **Multiple sandwiches if you drop one you have a spare.**

#3. RAID-10 (my personal favorite) This is a combination between RAID-0 and RAID-1. With this setup you need a minimum of 4 hard drives. How this works is 2 sets (2 drives in a set) get stripped. In the two sets the drives get mirrored. So you have drives 1-4 in a system. Drives 1 & 2 are one half and drives 3 & 4 are another half. If Drive 2 fails for whatever reason the system still runs normally and continues uninterrupted. Replace the failed drive with new drive and the software will automatically rebuild the mirrored files. 4 or more drives needed. Drive size should be used across all drives. **This would be if you lost your sandwich and you never knew it was gone but it got there really fast, and even if you did loose one half of a sandwich you would never know.**

#4. JBOD (Just a Bunch Of Disks). This is one that is rarely used, the files are just spanned across multiple drives, if one fails the file structure is toast. **Multiple types of sandwiches of all flavors and styles, it fills you up but may not be pretty or tasty.**

Question: what were the negative social and economic consequences of bigamy/polygamy, that gradually resulted in its criminalization, in most countries ?
Answer: You can look at it from both directions.

In one direction, polygamy is a response to a shortage of men.  Normally, this shortage is due to consuming those men in wars and violent criminal enterprises.  So extremely violent societies are more likely to favor polygamy.

In the other direction, polygamy causes (or perpetuates) the violence by a small cadre of men monopolizing access to women and leaving the majority of men without such access.

In terms of becoming criminalized, it's easiest to see looking backwards.  The societies which thrived over time were those that adopted the most effective cultural patterns (given the conditions they faced at the time).  While the most elite men in all societies have always enjoyed a broad availability of sexual partners, societies where these elites were very small and the prevailing pattern was monogamy ended up being far more stable and prosperous because they weren't being forced to engage in endless external violence to forestall endless internal violence.

Question: Why do people want Obama impeached over the Benghazi attack?
Answer: The scandal originally was about when the attacks occurred the Administration, including Hillary Clinton, blamed it on reaction to some terribly made [anti-Muslim movie trailer](_URL_0_). In actuality it was coordinated effort by Al Qaeda.

This got the Republicans very upset. And they accused Obama of playing politics by covering up a security failure and Al Qaeda attack and pointing fingers at the movie and implying that Republican extremists were the cause.

Instead of the White House being grown ups and admitting they messed up they have parsed statements and shown that technically they did make some statements blaming terrorists rather than movie critics.

And instead of the Republicans being grown ups and getting over the whole thing they have conducted Congressional hearings to look into the thing.

The congressional hearings today are about how much warning there was before the attack. The Republicans are trying to find something but have no actual evidence the White House did anything drastically wrong.

Question: After the apocalypse, how would I start a currency for my newly created society of 50 people?
Answer: Something everyone needs, so perhaps bullets, or rations. Examples would be The Last of Us and FTL: Faster Than Light. Both these games, one being post-apocalyptic, the other a space exploration thingy feature trading using ration cards and "scrap" (used to mend ships and buy upgrades) respectively. Both of which have a face value that is of a wordly use, having a purpose that isn't economic.

Question: Why can you only use a #2 pencil on a scantron sheet?
Answer: It's not really an issue of whether it works, but of who is responsible in the event that it doesn't work.

They aren't going to test their machine with every possible type of pencil.  Even if they tested it with a variety, *someone* would find *some* pencil that doesn't scan right.  So instead, they test it with the most common type of pencil, and if you use something else and your answers aren't scored right, it's your own fault.

Question: Why am I hungry before bedtime but then fine for hours after waking up even if I have not eaten ?
Answer: i think it is because your metabolism slows down

Question: Why are there no sentient plant-based species? Why is base intelligence so abundant and diverse in animals, but non-existent in the plant kingdom?
Answer: >  Is there something inherent to “plant cells” that prohibits that possibility?

It is more something inherent to plant biology that prohibits the possibility, and is related to the lack of nerves within plants. Brains require *a lot* of energy! The human brain consumes about 20% of the total energy used by the human body, which is immense considering it is only about 2% of the total weight.

A plant sitting out in the sun just isn't going to soak up enough energy through photosynthesis to maintain a significant brain. Add on to that problem that the energy extracted isn't enough to run all the other things required to act on such thinking; the plant can't beat a heart to establish a robust circulatory system, or a respiratory system capable of supporting muscle cells which they also generally lack. Without all of those things a nervous system is fairly useless (what would it control?) and the result is that even if they somehow had a free brain it would be pointless!

Question: aliasing and antialiasing in computer graphics.
Answer: Game's graphics sometimes appear to be "pointy" or not curved enough due to the way the objects are built - using a grid of dots/ geometrical shapes and covering them with a skin/texture. antialiasing process adds "new dots" to the object in order to smooth its appearance.

Question: Venomous means harm is done with injection. Poisonous means harm is done when ingested... But is venom poisonous, and is poison venomous? Like, will eating a venomous critter poison you?
Answer: Most venoms are not poisonous. 

Most poisons are venomous. (That sentence is wrong, but we're having a conversation.)

Venoms are *usually* proteins that are produced to do a very specific thing, they are designed to be injected into soft tissue and act very quickly. Most venoms are neurotoxins, meaning they target nerves in some way, like blocking the neurotransmitters from being released and thus paralyzing the muscle. This gets to the heart or the lungs and the victim dies. 

These venoms are not designed to pass through mucosal membranes like those found in the mouth, eyes, nose, etc, so if someone were to swallow it, it would pass through the esophagus with minimal damage. When it gets to the stomach it's now in a massively acidic environment. The pH is ~2, the pH of blood is ~7.4, so the stomach is ~250,000x more acidic (thanks for actually doing the math) than blood. 

Proteins are only stable in certain conditions, salinity, temperature, pH, all effect the protein on a molecular level. 

So the venom passes into the stomach, isn't stable in that environment, and is rendered "harmless". 

Poisons are a different story. 

Poison Dart Frogs, probably the most notorious poisonous animal. Arrowheads were poisoned (envenomed?) By rubbing them on the frogs, stabbing it into the frog, or "roasting them over a fire". Which shows that the poison wouldn't be able to be cooked out.

But these frogs are also too poisonous to *TOUCH* the poison is on the frog's skin and is absorbed through our skin. 

You've probably heard of licking toads? They're also poisonous, but the poison isn't fatal and it's absorbed readily through mucosal membranes. 

Polar bears aren't poisonous. But their livers are, they contain an essential vitamin, which is fat soluble, at such high concentrations that it would kill you to eat. Poison by concentration.

Warfarin? A massively popular heart medication? Rat poison. It's a blood thinner, and originally was made as a rat poison, but at very low levels, can be used therepuetically. 

Whether a poison can be used as a venom really depends on the poison. If I were to dip an arrowhead in botulism toxin, yeah, that will kill ya.

Poisons can be proteins, small molecules, drug like substances, pretty much anything, it's a catch all. 

Venoms are pretty much just proteins, they're produced by an animal for a purpose and evolutionarily speaking it's a hell of a lot easier to produce a protein for a purpose than it is to create an enzyme or an enzymatic pathway that produces a molecule. 

If you look up rattlesnake venom you'll find "modified saliva", evolution took an existing structure, a salivary gland, and modified it until it produced a saliva capable of killing prey. Also, venoms are usually more than one protein, dozens of them working in concert. Toxins and poisons are generally thought of as a single molecule. 

Komodo Dragons? Actually venomous, the whole blood poisoning thing with bacteria was a hypothesis that was never really proven and made a good story. Their venom isn't nearly as fast acting as other venoms, which probably lead to this hypothesis of the bacteria in their mouth causing sepsis and death. 

A bit rambly, but I think I hit most of the key points.

Edit: words and I looked up the Komodo dragon I was taught that they causes sepsis and it wasn't until recently that the venom was proven. Also looked up the poison dart frog thing.

Question: how does a traffic start on a highway?
Answer: Let's say that a road is full of cars going the same speed.  Something happens that causes a group of cars to slow down. 
All of the cars behind them have to slow down, the cars behind that set of cars, and so on.

Long after the original cars have sped up and gone, cars far away are still having to slow down due to that one original problem.

Question: Why does chicken pox get more dangerous the older you are?
Answer: The chicken pox virus isn't completely understood, but it's thought that it's harder on you as an adult because your body attacks it more violently. In other words, it's worse not because the virus is worse, it's because your more mature immune system reacts more strongly to it and causes other adverse affects.

Question: How would "true" Communism work?
Answer: As in the ideal? There wouldn't be a concept of ownership. Everything would in some way belong to everybody. In return, everybody would work hard at their jobs, secure in the knowledge that everyone else is doing the same. Basically, everyone would put in equal effort into society and get equally rewarded.

This obviously does not in any way work in real life.

Question: If all the glaciers melted, we somehow figured out how to deal with the rising waters and displaced people. How would our weather systems change and could we survive that?
Answer: I'm a meteorology student - I'll try answering this. Sorry it's a long answer, but Earth is complicated. Here goes!

There's a term called "albedo," which basically means the amount of light something reflects. Ice has a high albedo, while water's is lower. If the ice is all gone, the Arctic would get much warmer, as there would be no ice reflecting the Sun's rays, and therefore heat as well. Keep that in mind.

Earth is unevenly heated, as the tropics are hotter than the poles, because the tropics face the Sun and therefore receive more direct sunlight. At the poles, that same amount of light is spread over a larger area, because the Sun is at a much lower angle in the sky, hence less heat. This uneven distribution of heat leads to cold poles and hot tropics, and fuels global weather patterns.

How does this fuel global weather? If you have a hot thing next to a cold thing, heat will transfer to the cold thing naturally. This concept brings about much of global airflow. Keep in mind that hot air can hold more moisture than cold air, and that as air rises, it expands and cools, and as it falls, it contracts and warms. These concepts cause 3 large circulations in each hemisphere: "Hadley cells" from the equator to 30 degrees N/S, "Ferrel cells" 30-60 degrees, and Polar cells, 60 degrees to the poles. Since the equator has the sun directly overhead or very high in the sky, it gets the most sunlight and most heat, so this can hold the most moisture. Hot air, because it is less dense than cold air, rises, and cools as it rises, so it can hold less water, releasing the moisture, leading to rain. This is why there are generally tropical rainforests on the equator, because all the rain. As the air goes up, it goes north, away from the equator, and then goes down when it is cold, and therefore denser than the other air. Then it goes down and heats up, still dry, around 30 degrees N/S. This is why there are many deserts along that latitude (Sahara, Arabic, Australia's Outback, Kalahari, etc.) The other two cells work similarly.

Aside from air circulation, ocean currents are very important for the weather as well, and they would be disrupted thoroughly by glaciers melting, by releasing cold freshwater into warm saltwater seas. How important are currents for climate? The Gulf Stream, a warm current from the Gulf of Mexico across the North Atlantic to Western Europe, is much of why, even though Spain and Nebraska are at the same latitude, Nebraska has ridiculously cold winters, while Spain is mild. 

Going back to air circulation, there are warm and cold air masses throughout the planet, and where they meet, we have fronts, with which come many of our storms. This is an oversimplification, but as winds rotate around air masses and centers of low/high pressure areas, there is often a rather defined "jet stream" which separates cold polar air from tropical air. It is generally more well-defined as the difference between the polar temperature and tropical temperature is greater. With the poles melting and getting warmer as a result of a vicious cycle where water absorbs more heat then ice by being less reflective, the difference between polar temperature and tropical temperature is weaker, making the jet stream go into odd patterns as it has the last few years, with terrible droughts in the Midwest and West, and terribly cold winters, as Canadian air migrates way further south and east than normal, causing some days when Alaska was warmer than Georgia.

Patterns like this would continue, but as the Arctic warms, we would get warmer winters. However, summer would be ridiculously hot, and lead to more hurricanes and severe thunderstorms, fueled by much more energy/heat in the atmosphere. As Earth warms and the sea rises, there would be potential for much more moisture in the atmosphere, leading to a lot more large storms dumping  lot of rain at once, thus causing flooding inland as well, not just at he submerged coasts. 

On the other side of that, droughts would worsen as it gets hotter, because what little water there is in some places would evaporate easier, and a lot more moisture would have to build up in order to saturate the hotter air. Deserts would expand drastically in some places.

However, remember everything I said about global air cells/circulation? A lot of that would get thrown off too, and a little differently in both hemispheres. There's a lot more sea than land south of the equator, and one continent there is nearly entirely covered by miles of ice. Now imagine turning all of that into fresh water and putting it into the world's saltwater oceans. It would throw off everything and make currents and air circulation extremely unpredictable and confusing.

Another factor is that with more sea and less land, everyone would live closer to the ocean, neutralizing their temperatures somewhat, because it takes more energy to heat or cool water than rock/land.

So, how would we humans respond to all this? If Earth was so hot that the poles had no ice and were therefore above 32 degrees, then that means the tropics would have become uninhabitable due to excessive heat. So, everyone moves closer to the poles and the coasts to survive relatively comfortably in a hotter world with more severe and complex weather with floods during droughts. Farming would become more difficult, as people would go to different terrain further north as the Midwest becomes unbearably hot for half the year. There would be food shortages for a while, and as water falls more but less often, it would also be an important commodity, leading to increased violence and war over these resources and good land for farming. The tropics would be uninhabitable, the climate of the North would become like the climate of the South or Mexico, and deserts would expand further east into the Midwest, and north due to changes in air circulation. With warmer oceans and more ocean area, there would be much more potential for many more increasingly powerful hurricanes to form and threaten people.

Excessive droughts and floods from sever storms would lead to a more unstable world with less predictability and resources. We could survive with better technology and working together, but there would be mass migrations continuing into smaller and smaller habitable zones further from the equator. Living by the ocean would neutralize temperature, but heighten the risk of super-powerful frequent hurricanes striking people. Meanwhile, inland areas would be too hot in the summers to be comfortable or farm efficiently, as crops would be dried out. Habitable zones would be smaller and it would be more expensive and harder to live, but it would be doable. Somewhat post-apocalyptic, and the population of the world but drop significantly or become extremely crowded in select habitable zones, but it would be survivable.

Thanks for reading!

Edit: typo/grammar

TL;DR There would be a lot more drought and flooding and sever storms/hurricanes. Tropics would be way too hot to live in, so people would flock toward the poles, and farming would be harder as weather is less predictable or stable and arable land is limited. It would be survivable for some, but resources would be very limited and the weather would be pretty terrible and tough in most of the world. Thanks for reading!

Question: If there is no sound in space, how is that car broadcasting Bowie up there? Is it able to be heard if you were near?
Answer: Actually were there are molecules there will be sound. If the Tesla passes through a cloud of gas you could in theory hear it, until it passes out of the cloud.

The music will always be playing (until the power run's out) and if you place your head or for that matter your hand on the car you will feel / hear the music with vibration through the car body.

Either way its a nice gesture to David Bowie.

Question: Why do books have "This page is intentionally left blank" pages?
Answer: I work for a small local printer (there's maybe 12 of us) and this is done for a few different reasons and you'll normally see these on the left hand side of your books.

In the event of a textbook/test/manuals, it's to keep people from thinking something is supposed to be there.  Most sections/chapters will start on the right side and sometimes previous chapters end on the right side, near the bottom, so to keep people from thinking things were misprinted when they flip the page, a "page left blank" message is printed

we print a handful of government documents and in these it's to make it easier to spot copied/forged/edited documents.  Joe Q. Public isn't going to think about switching out front and back pages, so if you've made edits to a page, you're bound to forget to print the "page left blank on purpose"

also, 2 minor bits of trivial book information:

most books have the odd pages on the right and even on the left, as page 1 will be on the right side, where most English reading people are bound to pick up a book and read.

If you take a magazine that's stapled (aka "saddle stitched") and take it apart, each page sheet will have the page number on the left odd, and one on the right is even, and the two added together (unless there's blank lead in pages) will be one more than the number of pages in the magazine.

Question: Why do so many fast food drive thrus have 2 windows, but always have you pull to the second window?
Answer: The reason for this is that if they get very busy, they can have you pay at the first window and receive you food at the second. However if they do not feel they are busy enough to merit the extra worker, they will only have 1 window open. I believe they typically use the 2nd because it is closer to the kitchen and front end of the store. This allows for easier change of order or so the line looks shorter.

Question: Imagine a room with mirrors as walls. There is a light source that produces light for a short period of time in it, then the light source stops. Will the room stay bright because the light will bounce of the mirrors for ever?
Answer: Ignoring the conundrum of trapping it, which would be impossible, the light would both lose energy with every bounce and be absorbed by the mirror. Mirror's actually have a naturally green tint that absorbs light, which can be viewed when having mirrors facing parallel to each other - the further down the reflection you go, the greener the reflection becomes. 

TL;DR no.

Question: How misted water and sunlight make a rainbow?
Answer: Here's a pretty simple phenomenon to explain.

Sunlight, is composed of many different wavelengths of light sandwiched together. Some of this light isn't even visible to human eyes, however those colors which we can see are part of the visible spectrum: red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and violet and all of the colors in between.

When light enters a new material at an angle it bends. Think of it like a lawnmower going from the sidewalk to the grass. As the first wheel touches the grass that side of the lawnmower is slowed down causing it to turn. When light enters water it can still move through it, but at a slower speed, so it bends, and this bending is known as refraction.

Here's where all of this works together, because red light travels through water at a different speed than violet light, they get bent in different amounts. This creates a rainbow.

Edit: [This](_URL_0_) image should also show why you can only see a rainbow when the sun is behind you.

Question: If I set my portable A/C to 20°C when the room temperature is 10°C why/why won't the A/C heat the room?
Answer: If you want to use the AC to heat a room, you need to reverse the outputs: The radiator that gets rid of the heat needs to vent inside, and the radiator that produces cool air needs to vent outside.

However, even if you do this, the temperature controller might not consider that application, so you would have to set the target temperature lower than room temperature and regulate it yourself by turning it on and off.

Question: Why is it that people procrastinate?
Answer: Many people do it due to perfectionism and anxiety. For example, I’ll put off essays because I’ll worry that if I start an essay early, I won’t be able to do as good a job on it as I would if I’ve had more time to think. I’ll wait and wait, even though I know that if I keep putting it off I’ll end up turning it in late. Then I’ll convince myself that I should just accept the late points because I’ll be able to write a better essay with more time and get a better grade (even with points off for lateness) than I would if I’d just written it on time. 

Attention span (especially ADHD), time management, and distraction also play a huge role in procrastination. Sometimes you just want to do something more interesting or fun than the task at hand, and sometimes you’ll be researching something for a paper and end up in a Wikipedia blackhole, reading about the history of the McChicken at 3 am when your essay is due at 9:30 am.

Depression plays a role too. Sometimes you just can’t muster up the energy to complete the task on time.

People procrastinate for many reasons, but according to my extensive experience with procrastination and the many sessions I’ve spent talking about procrastination with psychologists, these are the main reasons.

Question: how do people die in their sleep in a fire? Wouldn't uncontrolable coughing wake you up first?
Answer: The carbon monoxide gas can knock a person unconscious -- so they may be "put to sleep" before they ever wake up.

Question: How does a law on paper become enforced?
Answer: People are employed to make sure others are complying with relevant laws. These people are known as law enforcement.

Question: if a murder were to occur on the ISS, what would be done about it?
Answer: [Wikipedia article on space jurisdiction](_URL_0_). [PDF on law in ISS](_URL_1_). [More info](_URL_2_).

Question: What caused the "Dust Bowl" of the 1930s? What stopped it? Could it happen again?
Answer: Cause: Excessive farming.  The area that the Dust Bowl took place in had spent centuries/millenia/etc. with grass holding down its dirt against winds in the area.  Settlers went west and plowed everything up, and the wind started picking up the dirt.

Stop: Mostly people realizing that over-farming was bad, as well as the government stepping in.  DC really got involved when some of the dust storms reached far enough to effect the major eastern population areas.

Could it happen again?  Theoretically yes, but we're (hopefully) smart enough to not let it happen.

Question: How come when we eat food that's scalding hot, it doesn't feel like that after we swallow or if it's in our stomach?
Answer: Simple. We don't have thermoreceptors (neurons that are able to sense the change in temperature which gives us the sensation of heat and cold) in those organs/tissues.

Question: Why do escalators break so easily and why does it take so long to repair them?
Answer: Escalators have a hard life. A lot of the time, they are very old, I know some in my city are apparently upwards of 50 years old. They are always in use, always being walked on with wet, muddy shoes and get full of dust and debris. With something so big, they have to decide whether it is worth replacing or repairing. Another thing, you only notice when escalators are broken, yet you might walk on multiple working ones every day. I think the main thing is that because of how many escalators there are in every city in the world, you notice the inconvenience when they are broken but don't notice the convenience of them when they work.

Question: Why are kids so fucking picky?
Answer: Firstly, kids have a stronger sense of smell and taste. Many of the things we eat can taste and smell much stronger to kids.

Secondly, kids have a phase when they realize they can refuse things. They realize they can say "no", that they are not mindless subordinate to adults. They learn that they can express they do not want something, and they start saying no to all sorts of stuff, learning their limits when it is appropriate to say no and when it is not.

Question: (biochemistry) why does Km decrease for uncompetitive inhibitors?
Answer: Uncompetitive Inhibition occurs when an inhibitor can only bind the enzyme-substrate complex. That is, free enzyme is not a target of inhibition, but once a substrate enters so too can the inhibitor. Obviously, because enzymes which are bound to substrates can become blocked, the Vmax must be reduced. Km, however does not have as obvious a change. Because the enzyme-substrate normally exists in equilibrium with the enzyme and substrate, when you remove it from the equilibrium (by binding the inhibitor) the equilibrium actually shifts to replace the missing complex. As a consequence, more substrate binds to more free enzyme until a new equilibrium is established. When one observes this however, it appears as though the substrate has an increased affinity for enzyme (and thus a lower Km). The real reason for this effect however is simply because substrate has now been taken up to form substrate-enzyme AND substrate-enzyme-inhibitor complexes, effectively consuming more substrate that the original, inhibitor-free equilibrium.

_URL_0_...

Question: How do virus scanners check each file for thousands of different kinds of malware so quickly?
Answer: There are a few things to consider:

1. Unless you specifically instruct your AV to do so, it probably *isn't* checking every file on your device. Instead, it targets the 'problem areas' where viruses are mostly known to inhabit.

2. While there have been many, many, many viruses throughout history, most of them are now obsolete. They 'die' as soon as a patch is issued, or a new software version becomes available, etc. So there's normally no need to scan for every known virus; only the *current* ones. This cuts down the size of the search by an order of magnitude.

3. Viruses are a bit like fingerprints. While each one has its own specific "signature", they also have a lot in common with each other, and you can 'spot them from a distance'. For example, you could compare your fingerprint with that of someone from Uganda, and another person from China, and someone else from France, and they'd look quite similar in many respects. These 'heuristics' are good at identifying patterns and trends, and - while it's not 100% perfect - it's a fairly reliable and speedy trick.

4. And - perhaps most importantly - the processing power of our devices these days is *incredibly* good. Checking a virus definition isn't like rendering a full-HD game environment on screen. It's not very intensive, and so the computer can do it quite quickly.

Question: Why can I use headphones as a microphone and not a microphone as a speaker(s)?
Answer: You can if the mic is a dynamic (electromagnetic) mic. Most mics are electret condenser mics. If you do try to use a dynamic mic as a speaker, you will get very little sound and will burn out the coil if you try to get more sound. Microphones are made with thin wires and small diaphragms.

Question: Why do people twitch, or jump, while they are falling asleep?
Answer: Ah I hate these! It's a called a hypnagogic jerk and they occur during the transition between being awake and asleep. There are a couple of theories for them, such as accidental neuron misfiring, but I like the evolutionary approach to the phenomena. 

The theory goes that the jerk originates from our origins - when we may have been resting up in trees and hiding from predators. Accidentally falling asleep in these conditions would definitely benefit from this sudden hypnagogic jerk so we could quickly grab a branch to stop us falling out.

Question: When reading nutritional information labels what is the remaining weight made of?
Answer: Water it is. There is pretty much nothing else that could possibly be it. A very small percentage would be some technological additives like preservatives, colourants and stuff, but they usually are used in insignificant amounts (10s of mg/kg). Oh and possibly air if you think about some puffy bread, but that too is absolutely insignificant considering its density. Even dehydrated products can not be completely dry, but youd notice the "missing mass" should be much lower than say ham or canned vegetables.

Question: How does wind 'suck' a door shut?
Answer: Venturi effect.  Air flowing through a restriction--even if only restricted on one side, such as when it flows past your open garage door--creates a low-pressure area as it must flow faster to get past the restriction.  Higher pressure air inside the house then blows the door at the top of the stairs shut.

The Venturi effect is also used in airbrushes, perfume sprays and carburetors, to draw liquid from a reservoir and into the air stream, breaking the liquid into a fine mist.

Question: Can someone explain why is it when you crouch down, take deep breaths and quickly stand up, you get dizzy?
Answer: Hyperventilating [reduces the level of carbon dioxide in the blood](_URL_0_). Rising carbon dioxide levels signal to the brain that you need to breathe - hyperventilating before hand allows oxygen levels to fall further before this happens. This is explained on [this wikipedia page](_URL_1_).

Standing up rapidly reduces the amount of blood reaching the brain, as the heart takes time to adjust to the extra load.

Question: What causes someone's voice to sound so much different than the norm (i.e. Gilbert Gottfried, Ray Romano) ? Is there a distinct physical difference in those people's larynges?
Answer: No idea. I was curious too. but I do know Gilbert Gottfrieds voice is fake. he's over the top on purpose.

_URL_0_

Question: The process for writing a song
Answer: This has more to do with lyrics or stories or just writing in general but I think Neil Gaiman sums it up very well in my opinion. 



"You write. That’s the hard bit that nobody sees. You write on the good days and you write on the lousy days. Like a shark, you have to keep moving forward or you die. Writing may or may not be your salvation; it might or might not be your destiny. But that does not matter. What matters right now are the words, one after another. Find the next word. Write it down. Repeat. Repeat. Repeat"

Question: Where does the $$ for universal basic income come from? If an entire country is making UBI, where do the tax dollars come from?
Answer: So the issue here is that people are still going to have jobs and work in companies. Many people are still going to work because they enjoy their jobs, because they want to have more money beyond the UBI, because it will keep them busy. The idea is that enough people will still be working that the economy will function enough that the government will give the UBI. 

There are some who don't believe it would work that way, but that's why this hasn't been implemented universally.

Question: Why is pork belly not being sold more commonly in the US?
Answer: Pork belly is sold in the US, but people rarely buy a slab of meat. They prefer to buy it already processed into cuts, so they buy primarily bacon (normally preferring cured or smoked bacon) and to a lesser degree fatback rather than buying full porkbelly.

Question: What would happen if very few people voted in the US 2016 Presidential Election ( E.g  < 10 million votes) maybe as a protest. Would this open other options after the election?
Answer: State law decides how the states use their electors in the college. (There is no federal popular election, but unfortunately this is often misunderstood.) The states choose to determine their vote using a popular election, but I'm not aware of any state that requires a minimum turnout. Perhaps they would retroactively implement one in the event of extraordinarily low turnout or a dubious election; an option would be for the legislature to decide directly or let the governor decide.

In any case, what matters at the end is the votes the states send to Washington. Congress counts them and officially certifies the result; on occasion it has rejected a state's votes (notably during the Civil War, of states in rebellion whose legitimate government was uncertain). If no one has a majority of the Electoral College, the House elects the President, and the Senate the Vice President.

Question: How is the 9th circuit court's decision on concealed carry today reasonable?
Answer: The First Amendment guarantees the right to free speech, but you can get in trouble for inciting hate crimes, yelling "I HAVE A BOMB!!!" on an airplane, etc. There are reasonable restrictions to the right to free speech.  

"right to keep and bear arms shall not be infringed" does NOT MEAN "there can be absolutely zero rules about guns".

Question: what a vector in terms of art is?
Answer: I think you mean vector graphics. Right?

It's just a way to save image files. Basically when you save an image using a vector graphics you save the mathematical equations that produced that image. 

The advantages are: high resolution (in theory, infinite, in practice it depends on the screen), you can modify the image without loosing quality, you can compress the image without loosing details.

On the other hand, the weak points are: you have to study a lot to create a nice vector image and complex images require a powerful computer.

Question: Why is it that you wake up sick but don’t get sick while awake?
Answer: I’ve developed a cold throughout the day twice. I know when it happens now because I become really really thirsty and just feel tired on the afternoon. The sniffles start soon after.

Question: The security council has 5 permanent members (the winners or WWII) - US, UK, China, Russia, and France. How come other Allied countries that won don't have permanent seats? (Canada, India, Poland)
Answer: Because those permanent seats (along with veto rights) were given out to countries that were world powers at the time, not just winners of WWII. Basically, the security council realised that unless they got these five world powers involved, a security council was going to be useless. So they were willing to offer these particular countries a few concessions to get them to sign up. While other countries, such as Canada and India contributed greatly to WWII, they also didn't have the same sort of influence on world politics as Russia or the US did, so it was not that critical to get them on board.

Question: What is a Derivative?
Answer: It has a few different meanings in different contexts. What setting are we talking about?

Question: When the concentration camps in Nazi Germany were liberated, why were people from local towns forced to bury the dead?
Answer: It was because the soldiers liberating the camps were angry. Angry in a way that they had never been angry before, gut-wrenchingly furious. Wanting to lash out in some way.  

They did it because they believed that if the German civilians knew about or not it then this would bring it home to them.  

Might be right, might not. But that;s how they felt.  

Relative was a soldier who liberated a camp.

Question: How do earplugs that block mostly loud sounds selectively (gunshots) work?
Answer: If you're asking about the style I think you are, they have a microphone and speaker assembly mounted in an otherwise high-reduction set of earmuffs. The mic and speaker are set up to run normally until a certain decibel threshold is reached, at which point the microphone cuts off and you are effectively on mute until a second or so of less than-activation volume has passed.

Question: Why do some people have nightmares/bad dreams after eating spicy foods?
Answer: Spicy foods can cause indigestion while you're sleeping. Stomach pain is commonly associated with fear or anxiety, sending your brain the signal that something is wrong. Because you are asleep your brain takes that anxious feeling and attaches a reason to it creating the narrative in your nightmares.

Question: Why does peppermint unblock sinuses?
Answer: Menthol and related molecules activate thermoreceptors responding to cold. One of the physiological response to cold is vasoconstriction (your blood vessels "shrink"). When your nose is blocked, it is mostly due to those vessels that are dilated, therefore, menthol can reduce that blocking since it will contract them.

Question: Why does it feel good to stretch out on the floor or in bed in the morning?
Answer: Your muscles are held in their shape and place by a filmy covering called "fascia". As you sleep or remain motionless the fascia can grow and restrict muscle movement. A good stretch in the morning moves your muscles and the movement brushes away the fascia growth in the night. And you will feel free and looser. Its also good for you. Keeps you mobile and limber. At least this is my understanding. Hope its been useful or at least interesting!

Question: Why dogs act like they're swimming when they're being held above a body of water.
Answer: Most animals have instincts that aren't 'perfect', including humans. These imperfect instincts can react at the wrong time if the animal is in a situation that, evolutionary, it would have needed to react in. So a dog knows it's above water and it starts swimming, because evolutionary when a dog was above water it was just about to fall in...And swimming automatically was the best way to survive.

This does not occur in humans because we have no natural swimming instinct and have to be trained to even keep our heads above water and not breath. See all the little kids who drown in bathtubs. (human *BABIES* have a gag instinct not to breath underwater, but they lose it after a few months)

The closest human analog I can think of off the top of my head is waterboarding torture. You aren't being drowned, you have a plastic wrap over your mouth to prevent you from drowning while they pour water over your face. But your instincts say that when you can't breath and your head is in water you are drowning, so you feel like you are drowning regardless, and the torture works.

Question: If everyone uses a form of AD Block Plus how will, Twitcher/Youtuber/Web sites make money?
Answer: If they can't show you Ads, they can't make money but less than 10% of those sites' population uses an  Ad-blocking pugin/extension, so they don't worry yet. While that percentage keeps shy, big sites won't take action but if everyone uses Adblock or things like that, the sites will start banning people who uses them.

Question: What is the difference between 32 bit and 64 bit windows?
Answer: Differences in programming. Why? Because there are different kinds of CPUs, 32 bit and 64 bit.

The primary difference between 32 bit and 64 bit CPUs is the way they index RAM. RAM is used for temporary storage for the CPU when programs run so that the CPU can have quick access to them as opposed to waiting on a drastically slow hard drive to give it the data it needs. To do this, it needs to index what RAM is where, so the CPU itself has storage that indexes the RAM, kind of how a library indexes its books by the Dewey Decimal System, the CPU memorizes where is what needed RAM. The limitation of 32 bit systems is that it can only index a maximum of 4 gigabytes of RAM, while 64 bit CPUs can index 17 billion GB. So basically it can't really use that extra RAM if you have more than 4 GB.

The thing is 32 bit and 64 bit CPUs are so different that they run programs in different ways and need different programs to run, but 64 bit CPUs are reverse compatible with 32 bit programs. This includes OS's.

If you have a 64 bit CPU, use 64 bit Windows. if 32 bit, 32 bit Windows. Most CPUs these days are 64 bit though.

Question: Why are so many scotches named "Glen-"?
Answer: Glen means "valley" in gaelic.  Scotland is reasonably hilly, and thus there are a lot of glens (and it's easier to build a distillery in a glen than on a hill!).  Many glens were given names: Glencoe, Rutherglen, etc.  And just like in every country, a lot of things/products/regions in Scotland are named for their location (think: "Hidden Valley" or "Silicon Valley" or "Nature's Valley").  Finally, and most importantly, "glen" has a pleasant sound that is particularly Scottish.  Ergo, lots of Scottish Whiskeys (and particularly those exported) contain "glen" in their name.  
  
Edit: As so many have correctly pointed out, Scotch Whisky is spelled without an "e."  But as a whiskey-drinking American (though never with ice, my fine Caledonian friends, lest you be worried), and as a citizen of the country [that best keeps your whisky industry a'distillin](_URL_0_), I'll spell it however I damn please!

Question: ELI-Five me Google's new privacy policy taking effect on March 1st, 2012, and what parts of it I should make note of, and/or be concerned about?
Answer: First of all, this has been asked [several times in this subreddit](_URL_0_) already.

Second, because I'm such a nice guy, here's an easy-to-understand explanation from the Electronic Frontier Foundation: _URL_1_

Question: The short and long term effects of the airplanes dumping fuel have on the atmosphere, the soil, and on water.
Answer: What happens is that it drops down below. There are regulations; fuel dumping is only done in emergency situations, where landing with all that fuel could be dangerous.

It's not a huge problem, since it doesn't happen often. Not only are the airlines not permitted to do it, they aren't inclined to do it unless they have to, because that's just throwing away money.

You dump fuel because you don't want your plane to blow up or catch fire.

Question: How do heating elements and filaments work.
Answer: Nichrome is (relatively) cheap to make, has a very high melting point (~1400C), and is resistant to continuing oxidation and corrosion.  The *resistivity* isn't what matters, what matters is the resist*ance* with respect to the rest of the circuit.  You can change the resistance by changing the shape.  
  
The reason materials like nichrome and tungsten are used is because of the benefit you get from being able to run at very high temperatures and survive. For a light bulb, it means that you get a lot of visible light emitted. For a heating element, it means you get much more efficient thermal transfer.  
  
For a heating element, high resistance (with respect to the supply) is desirable.  The maximum power will get to the element when its electrical resistance is equal to that of the rest of the system.  But that implies that there's as much power dissipated in the rest of the system as in the element....generally a bad thing.  No one wants an electric clothes iron with a handle that bursts into flame or melts.  
  
What is better is to have a higher resistance element (with respect to the supply resistance). The total power goes down, as does the power dissipated in the element.  But the efficiency (the amount of power dissipated in the element itself) goes up.  If Relement=Rsupply, the efficiency is 50%. At Relement=10xRsupply, the efficiency goes up to 91%.   
  
So you figure out how much power you need to dissipate in the element, and how much you can tolerate in the supply, and how low you can make the supply resistance.  That will tell you what resistance to make the element.  In general, you will want the element to be high resistance with respect to the supply, and you will want the supply to be as low resistance as possible.

Question: Explaining the difference between preignition and detonation in a piston engine
Answer: I'd be happy to! :)

_URL_0_

The above GIF shows the working cycle of a normal 4-stroke cylinder, found in nearly all cars, normally in 4 or 6 per engine, but in extreme cases up to 16 AFAIK. However, they all work the same - the reason for adding more will soon be seen.


The four strokes are inlet, compression, work and exhaust, or, if it's easier for you to remember: "suck, squeeze, bang, blow". 
You'll note that the piston moves up and down twice during these four strokes, thus the engine is only providing power for 25% of the time (which is why you normally want at least 4 cylinders - and to distribute the stresses on the axle evenly...)

**1**:The first stroke is the inlet, where the inlet valve is open and the exhaust valve is closed. The piston moves down, creating a lower pressure, sucking in a mixture of air and gasoline/diesel/whatever, in a ratio of 1:14 by weight), when the piston reaches BDC (bottom dead center), the inlet valve closes, and you have 

**2**: The compression stroke - where both valves are closed, and the piston moves up, but since the mixture of air and gasoline has nowhere to go, it is compressed and thus heated. At (or actually a little tiny bit before) TDC (top dead center) a spark is ignited, lighting the mixture, pushing the piston down in the 

**3**: BANG stroke... where both the inlet and exhaust valves are closed to prevet any gas from escaping, so you get maximum power. Upon reaching BDC, you have the...

**4**: Exhaust cycle, where the exhaust valve opens, and the upwards movement of the piston forces out the exhaust gasses. ...And then it all starts over.

Now, think back to the compression cycle: The mixture of gasoline and air is being compressed and thus heated rapidly, and if the sparkplugs "fire" too early (too much beforre TDC), this is pre-ignition, and the piston loses much of its power, since a fairly large part of the energy from the combustion is trying to push the piston in the opposite direction. Not good. But still not as bad as...

DETONATION... (insert ominous music)... Please be aware it is called a combustion engine, not a explosion/detonation engine. Under normal circumstances, the fuel is ignited and combusted in a controlled rapid burning. Detonation happens when the mixture of fuel and air detonates BEFORE the sparkplugs fire due to too high compression and temperature. A detonation is MUCH more powerful than a normal combustion, and will fuck you up. This can happen if you use gasoline of the wrong grade. 80 instead of 95 for example.

Detonation sucks MAJOR DONKEY BALLS. It will most likely shoot the affected piston out through the side of your cowling, forcing you to make a series of rapid and unpleasant decisions.

**TL;DR: Preignition sucks, detonation has the potential to kill you. Use the right grade of gasoline for your engine. Never lower than recommended. Higher is alright.**

Source: Former pilot.

Question: How is Reddit still "unprofitable" if the average daily reddit gold goal is 100%?
Answer: I thought the whole point of reddit gold was to pay for the servers,  not to profit.  I thought the daily goal was equal to the daily cost of running reddit servers.  

Am I wrong?

Question: Why is it hard to remember dreams?
Answer: It is difficult to remember dreams, because dreams take place in the brains pre-frontal cortex whereas memories and movements are stored in the cerebral cortex. Lucid dreams occur when our dreams drift into our cerebral cortex. This is the kind of thing that you learn in Neurology 101!

Fox, Mason T. "Christopher A. Walsh, MD, PhD Research Abstract | _URL_0_." _URL_0_. Penguin Publishing, 17 Jan. 1997. Web. 08 Apr. 2015.

Question: Why perfectionism is a negative trait? What's difference between perfectionism and doing someone's best?
Answer: [This xkcd comic puts it pretty well.](_URL_0_)

Or, there's the saying "Don't hold a $1000 meeting to solve a $100 problem."

In many situations, there's no approach that is objectively the "best" solution. Let's say I have a job interview, and I want to look my best. I put on a blazer, slacks, nice shirt... and a tie. Red tie or blue tie? I try both on and look in a mirror. I ask a friend for advice. I won't leave until I'm sure. It's one thing if I want to put on the best outfit and impress a hiring committee; it's something else if I spend so long composing that outfit that I'm late for the interview and shoot myself in the foot.

Searching for perfection is good. Allowing that search to hold you back in other ways may not be. That's what perfectionism refers to. It can be a good trait up to a point.

Question: Why can't you remember the exact moment you fall asleep?
Answer: We don't yet fully understand how memory works, or how sleep works, so any answer to this question is going to be making assumptions. But we do know a few things: 

1. When you are sleeping, your brain does not form memories in teh same way as it does when you are awake. 

2. Memories (and indeed experiences) are not immediate - there is a delay as your brain processes what is happening. 

From this, we could assume that the moment you fall asleep is not remembered because it happens, and then there is a delay before the memory would be created, and then your sleeping brain does not create the memory. 

This is definitely a simplification.

Question: What is going on with the California drought?
Answer: California hasn't been getting enough rain. The first year, everyone was thinking this was a short term problem and would resolve itself. The third year... water reserves are growing low and there's serious concern that if things don't change, California won't have enough water to not only continue with industrial agriculture but also keep their citizens alive.

The main issue here is that there are a lot of farms in California using TONS of water. Regular use by citizens is a drop in the bucket compared to how much gets used for growing crops.

Question: How does a magnetic core, like Earth's, form? I have a very rudimentary understanding of how planets form. But, how did the Earths core end up like it is now?
Answer: Earth's magnetic field comes from the molten outer core. When our sun was young, leftover gas and dust from it's formation orbited around it in a disc. clumps of this gas and dust started to swirl together to form the planets. The denser elements like iron and nickel fall to the center where under immense pressure and heat, the inner solid core and outer molten core formed, which is what gives us our magnetic field. 

Any rocky planet with a similar metal component to Earth should have a similar internal structure. Mars once had a liquid outer core but because it's much smaller than Earth, it cooled faster and solidified, meaning Mars no longer has a magnetic field.

Question: Why dont we build cars using water electrolysis?
Answer: It takes more power to electrolyze water than we can recover from burning it.

Question: Security Certificates (root, wildcard, etc)
Answer: Certificates are cryptographically signed electronic documents that are generated and released by "certificate authorities".  The certificate authority is an organization that says "Okay, we're going to issue all of these certificates.  We trust them to be who they say they are.  Therefore if you trust us, you implicitly trust them."

The root certificate is the certificate that the authority basically issues to itself that all other certificates generated by the authority are keyed from.  Once you trust the root certificate, you trust all certificates generated by the root certificate.

Most certificates issued are issued to a limited number of hostnames, like a single certificate will have www._URL_0_ and _URL_0_ on it as acceptable hostname.  A wildcard certificate has *._URL_0_, which means it can be used on all sites in the _URL_0_ domain.  While this may seem simple to manage, it is open to security issues.  You have to put the certificate and key on every server in the domain, so if one server gets hacked and the key/cert get stolen, you have to replace it on every server in the domain.

Edit: Formatting and wording.

Question: Why is wheat now mostly grown in temperate and cold-winter regions when it came from the fertile crescent?
Answer: Two reasons:

* In the Fertile Crescent, wild wheat relatives grow over winter, flower in late winter (and subsequently can be harvested for grain in the spring or early summer). As it evolved to deal with the cold winter nights of the Fertile Crescent, which made it very adaptable to the cold, more so than many other grains\*, it can be grown in cold regions where other grains don't do well. And in warm regions there are other grains, like corn, that do better in the warm than wheat.

* As wheat spread out of the Fertile Crescent to colder climates in Europe, it started to be planted later in the year after the coldest part of winter. So it became a spring crop, to be harvested in late summer or early fall.

But anyway, wheat isn't "mostly" grown in temperate and cold regions. India and China are the largest wheat producing countries (with USA at number 4) and they're all at a similar latitude to the fertile crescent ([see map of wheat production](_URL_1_)). But yes, it is grown in cold climates, especially in Europe and Canada (though it's grown as a spring/summer crop there).

\*Pretty much the only grain more cold tolerant is the close relative of wheat, barley, which [quite possibly was partly domesticated in Tibet](_URL_0_). On the other hand, wheat uses C3 photosynthesis so will never be able to out-compete C4 plants like corn, sorghum or millet for growing in hot, sunny climates.

Question: Why do Americans think it is inappropriate to wear the same clothes two days in a row?
Answer: Since the middle ages the first world has developed a long way in questions of body-hygiene. Since then people always have become more focused on being clean, because at the beginning this was quite useful. Within the last few generations I think the top-point of usefulness was left behind without being noticed by the majority of our modern society. So today many people see every trace of body-odour and things like that as a sign of being dirty. This is not the case, but it is just where this development has brought us. As a result, for many people being "clean" means changing your clothes every day.

Question: What do the sanctions against Kim Jong Un mean? How can you sanction a physical person/country leader?
Answer: The US maintains a big list full of people you can't do business with. You can see it right here (you can confirm that Kim Jong Un is on this list):

_URL_0_

Part of my job at the company I work for is to go through this list and make sure that none of the people we do business with (at least in the context of the sanction) is on this list. Of course, the government isn't watching you all the time so it's your responsibility to make sure the people you do business with aren't sanctioned. You probably won't get in trouble for selling a terrorist a cookie, but if you ever end up in a situation where both of you wind up in court due to some kind of business dispute and authorities find out they're on the list, you can be in trouble.

Question: Why are teeth naturally white?
Answer: Because through the various traits of evolution (which doesn't really have a why, it just is) a substance which happens to be white turned out to be the best one for chewing food.

Question: Why does a GPS tracker require a monthly fee/service to "connect," but a GPS car navigator (e.g. Garmin) does not?
Answer: So GPS is a completely passive technology.  A GPS receiver listens to signals broadcast by a group of satellites at known locations, and uses the timing difference between those signals to calculate its own location relative to the satellites.

But the end result is that *only the GPS receiver knows its location*.  The satellites don't even know that it exists. But if you want to track someone remotely, how do you get the location off of the GPS receiver and onto your computer/phone screen?  You have to have it transmit its location somehow.  For instance, over the cellular phone network.  And *that* is what you're paying for.  Without a subscription, the tracker will still know where it is; that costs nothing.  But it won't be able to remotely *tell* you where it is.

Question: How does DDOS protection work? And why do so many companies (such as eSports tournament organizers) have trouble defending themselves against DDOS?
Answer: Great question. There are many ways of protecting a server or site from DDOS attacks. DDOS attacks occur when a server is overwhelm with connection request packets, this is much like try to get on a train (the server) but the massive crowd surrounding you blocks your entry. so to prevent this you may use a proxy between the server you wish to protect and the outside world. then using access controls, all external connections are blocked except when coming from the proxy server. because external connections are blocked a ddos becomes ineffective, they may attack the proxy (aka bastion host) but the servers themselves remain safe, then simply swtich proxies.

there are also intrusion detection and intrusion prevention systems, these are security layers that come as both software and dedicated hardware. they study the network and watch for signs of malicious activity, things like excessive bandwidth use, sudden spikes, strange new connections that may or may not be legitimate. these systems will react to a ddos attack and begin individually blocking ips that are overwhelming the system with connections. 

you can change other settings in the server, to change the timers that drop connection packets, distribute your service across many servers so they may not all be attacked. or you can hire large corporations with systems designed to be ddos protected, and many of these companies simply have so much bandwidth and a strong counter-measure system to mitigate a ddos as it happens.

Question: When you throw a ball in a parabola, does it actually trace a parabola?
Answer: A parabola is what you get in the idealised case where the force of gravity is a constant. This is a good aproximation for movement near Earth's surface, 13,000km from the planet's centre. In your case, though, gravity is nowhere near a constant, so the parabola becomes an ellipse.

Question: What if we had different math. Would we understand the world?
Answer: Nothing about the fact we use base 10 affects how scientists, economists, or other experts understand the universe. They just need *some* way to write down numbers. In most of their work, the actual numbers don't even show up until the end -- the important work is in describing how one factor relates to another, and this is done with variables and equations, not specific numbers.

Question: What causes us to be mesmerized by fractals and certain repeating images, such as in a .gif?
Answer: Our brains are logic machines, similar to computers.  Our brain takes in large amounts of data every second and has to make sense of it all.  To do this, the brain looks for patterns (similar to a compression algorithm in computer software) that can quickly process the data into something recognizable.  It why we prefer symmetry in everything (the most symmetrical faces are considered the prettiest, for example).  So, anytime we see repeatable, predictable patterns, our brain is happy as it does not have to work as hard to process that visual data.

Question: How does purchasing goods from across the world work?
Answer: You have to trust the indian that he will send the goods, just like you trust _URL_0_ will send the goods after you give them your CC info.  If the indian wants to sell to international buyers, he will have a bank account setup to accept foreign money....

Question: The difference between classful and classless routing protocols.
Answer: **TL;DR: Classful routing protocols do not take the subnet mask into consideration when routing packets. Classless routing protocols do and allow subnetting.**

This is a pretty good question. I will try and explain it to the best of my ability.

Let's look at 2 routing protocols. RIP and RIPv2.

RIP is a classful routing protocol. It is only able to route based on the class of address, meaning that if you have a class A network block (lets say 10.0.0.0), anything that starts with a 10.x.x.x will be routed as though it is on the same network. RIP is unable to read the subnet mask and therefore will assume that the subnet mask matches the class of address. (For a class A network it would look like this: 10.0.0.1 255.0.0.0). Even if you had subnetted this address space with a different subnet mask (say 255.128.0.0) RIP would be unable to see this mask, and therefore would route everything into the same network. This can obviously cause a lot of waste, even in a class C network. You may only want 2 addresses, but are forced to use the entire block of 256 for your network.

RIPv2, however, IS able to see the subnet mask. That means when the router receives a packet it looks at both the address and the subnet mask to determine where to send it. In the scenario above we used the address 10.0.0.0 with the subnet mask of 255.0.0.0. If we were to subnet this space into two networks we would have Network 1 with the address of 10.0.0.0 - 10.127.255.254 with a subnet mask of 255.128.0.0 and Network 2 of 10.128.0.0 - 10.255.255.254 with the subnet mask of 255.128.0.0. By borrowing the extra bit from the next octet of the subnet mask, RIPv2 is able to see that there are 2 networks here. It then consults its routing table to see where to send the packet based on which network the address range falls in to. This allows you to have multiple networks for only one address space.

Edit: some clarifications.

Question: Why, after an emotionally taxing event such as a tough breakup or loss in the family, do people not experience hunger for a while?
Answer: When at rest and not in danger, the body is in what is called the parasympathetic system. Also known as the "rest and digest" phase, this is the time where the body will build new cells and absorb as much energy as possible from food. 

When in danger, the body goes into fight or flight, or the the sympathetic system. The body decides that the skeletal muscles should get the most energy, and digestion and immune systems are put on the back burner because what use are they when you are dead? That is why people will urinate and deficate themselves when extremely scared.   You can feel this happening when you get butterflies in your stomach. That's the blood leaving your stomach and into you skeletal muscles to prepare them for work.

In today's society humans are not hunted left and right, and we have time to focus on emotions and the such. We can get so worked up over emotion, that we may actually trigger the sympathetic system. This is why stressed out people seem to get sick more, their immune system is diminished by the sympathetic system. 

This is very, very over simplified; I am a high school student and this is what my teacher told me when I asked this question several months ago.

Question: The relationship between thunder and lightning
Answer: Lightning is very hot, and quickly heats up the air right next to it around 35,000°F (hotter than the Sun's surface). Heating up the air this quickly causes it to expand really fast, creating a sonic boom. It's the same process that happens when a firecracker going off, but on a much larger scale.

Question: How would you explain the Trinity? How can God and Jesus be different and the same.
Answer: Not a Christian anymore, but I went to a private christian school throughout all of highschool, so I hope those mandatory Jesus classes taught me something. Jesus is the Son of God because he was given birth to on Earth. He lived his life as a human and even died. This humanity factor makes him separate from God, a unique aspect. He is god because he has a divine nature - I mean he was (if you go by the bible) born of a virgin and did lots of miracle things. 

Think of it this way. You have the week right? Monday - sunday. If monday - friday (the work week) is "god" - the god at the top of the trinity god, the GOD god, and saturday is Jesus, and sunday is the holy spirit, they are all separate beings because they can be defined in separate terms or all under one term. 

I hope this makes sense.

Question: How are people/groups of people legally allowed to place "bounties" on others?
Answer: They're not "bounties" like in the Boba Fett sense. They're rewards to turn over information which would lead to arrest/prosecution. Boba Fett bounties ("Capture and/or kill this person") are illegal.

Question: How is that after Obamacare/Affordable Care Act prices actually rose?
Answer: There are several reasons, all working in tandem.

1) The ACA requires people to get insurance or pay a fine at tax time.  The fine is slated to go up each year.  While a number of people have decided to eat the fine, a lot got insurance to avoid it.  Higher demand means prices go up.

2) In an effort to get more people insured, the ACA states that you can't be denied  for preexisting conditions.  This means that  unhealthy people are getting insurance.  People who are more expensive to take care of mean that prices go up.

3) A lot of the insurance companies didn't want to see the ACA work for various reasons.  In particular Blue Cross Blue Shield, United, and Aetna have pulled out of a lot of states because the ACA says that in order to sell private insurance you also have to offer it through _URL_0_.  Lower supply means prices go up.

4) Nineteen states, particularly red states, refused to expand Medicare in their state, which would have given more options to a portion of their population.  Less competition means the price goes up.

5) The ACA did nothing to address the insane costs of healthcare in the US.  Our healthcare simply costs too much out of pocket for most people to pay.  This is for a number of factors, but when there's no incentive for costs to come down, they're likely to just keep going up.  More expensive healthcare means more expensive health insurance.

6) The health insurance system in the US is set up to be bloated and inefficient.  Doctors and insurances set up contracts individually, determining in network and out of network.  A doctor has to do this with every insurance company, and an insurance company has to do this with every doctor.  After a person gets healthcare, the doctor bills the insurance for a lot more than the care is worth, then the insurance tries to find a way out of paying entirely.  Eventually the doctor and the insurance negotiate down to something "reasonable".  If the doctor's out of network it's even more complex.  A lot of people's careers depend on this inefficiency so there's little incentive for them to change it.  Inefficiency means prices go up.

Points 1-4 are mostly the fault of the ACA.  Points 5-6 may not be, but are problems that existed before the ACA and were not addressed.

TL;DR: Higher demand, more expensive people to insure, lower supply, and healthcare is too expensive and inefficient.

Edit: One more thing... not all insurances are the same.  People tend to try to go for the cheapest option, which isn't likely to cover very much.  If someone gets "disaster" insurance or a plan with a high deductible and something expensive happens to them like falling off a roof or getting surgery, they likely can't afford to pay for the healthcare whether the insurance helps pay for it or not.

Question: Why is Obama visiting Burma a big deal?
Answer: Burma (or Myanmar) was a military dictatorship for decades.  Not as isolated as North Korea, but still one of the most isolated and authoritarian countries on earth.  Myanmar has recently taken steps towards becoming more democratic, and releasing government control over the economy.  An American President visiting Myanmar (the first President ever to do so) shows the progress that has been made.

Question: What caused the 2008 financial crisis (nonpartisan please)?
Answer: Well you have to start off with how a housing market works. First house prices are determined by a couple things: Size of the house, quality of the house (i.e. features the house has, how it looks, etc.), location, and this one ties in with location demand. So let's rewind back to the mid-90's: We were in an economic boom coming out the recession. The unemployment was dropping to 1960's levels (in some months, overall average was ~5%) and the poverty rate was dropping. Crime was dropping. Basically everything bad, was dropping. Because of this, the government thought it would be a good idea to start pushing that everyone deserves a home. The idea is simple, the more people who have a home, increases demand, which not only creates jobs, but also raises the value of the neighbor up by proxy. This means that there would be more money in the economy, which means more a far more stable economy. This push was also facilitated by a report from HUD that basically said, African-Americans and latino Americans were frequently denied loans to buy homes, at a rate much higher than European Americans (i.e. white people). So President Clinton put in an iniative to have more minority home owners.

Now let's move on to the late 90's: Because the economy was doing so well, and it looked like stability would not ever be an issue for at least several years, the Fed (headed by Alan Greenspan at the time) thought it would be a good idea to remove some of the finical burdens placed from depression era laws. One of the big ones was Glass-Steigel, basically the law said that investment banks couldn't merge with regular savings and checking banks. This was put in because when the depression hit, the banks were hit hard, because everyone was removing their money from their accounts, well that money wasn't there, it was instead used to invest in the stock market, which meant that people had lost all of their money they saved in the banks. This caused people to not trust banks, and because they survived on the revenue from loans and investing (which they can only do if they have money on hand from people's savings accounts,etc.) they failed and money was literally lost. Well there's a little but of foreshadowing.

Next the 00's: After the dot com boom of the early 00's the economy was stale at best. We were not in any means in a recission, and the jobless rate wasn't that high, but we weren't in the economy boom of the 90's. Well the problem was, the government was still pushing for home ownership for everyone, so this meant that house prices were rising and rising and rising, and this also meant that most people really couldn't afford to buy a nice home anymore. But the banks needed those homes to be able to sell derivatives, which are basically a large group of items, bundled together and sold off to an investor, who then plays them on the market. If the bundle is good, and the bills get paid, then the bundle sells and everyone makes money. If the bundles are bad, the investor loses all his money, and the bank isn't left to foot the bill, and the bank also got to keep the money from selling the derivative (You can see the problem there). So they were telling people "Hey you can afford this house!" Even though the house costs $250,000 and you only make $40,000 a year. They would convince of this by selling them that their loan payments would only be $X a month, which would be reasonable for them. They didn't tell them that the interest rate wasn't lock (and in some cases told them it was, when it really wasn't) and so in a year or two the monthly payment was now $3X which they couldn't afford. The banks didn't care about forclosure, because they have sold the bundle off, made money on interest and selling the bundle, and because everyone was wanting to buy, could easily resell the house at the same price and start the process over again. This couldn't last forever.

And the final piece of the puzzle, refinancing. People who bought their homes before the house prices skyrocketed, realized they had equity in their homes, a lot of it. Basically equity is the amount your house (or any item purchased on a loan really) is worth, more than what you got the loan for. Example: if I buy a house worth $10,000 and I paid $5,000 down, I have $5,000 of equity in my home, so say on a later date if I want the $5,000 back in a loan form, I can refinance the home and get the $5,000 back. Because people had so much equity in their homes, they decided to refinance, and get that money in their hands. This meant that instead of having equity in their homes, they had a loan for the exact value the house was worth at that very moment. (Foreshadowing again).

So now to the collapse: The market started to see that maybe this derivatives (bundles) weren't the best idea. A lot of the homes were defaulting and on the way to foreclosure. So they started selling the derivatives and fast. This meant the investors lost money, a lot of money, and so they stopped buying the bundles from a lot of the banks. Also the banks started to realize, they couldn't sell these foreclosed homes as fast as they wanted, and were going to be stuck with them on their books. So they started trying to sale refinancing bundles, but some of those were going into default and the investors had enough of any bundles involving homes. Banks started to lose a lot of money. Home values dropped because of foreclosures and a drop in demand. The banks filed bankruptcy, and the ones that didn't, stopped lending money, so small businesses couldn't make payrolls and had to lay people off. And because the banks were so large (because they were allowed to merge with anyone) when they fell the ripple effect across the economy was fast and devastating. 

So the after effects: House prices dropped dramatically, and people were now under water with their homes loans (meaning they owed more than what their house was worth). This also meant they were in negative equity. Also because of layoffs and a collapsing jobs market, there was more foreclosures and banks lost even more money. It was a vicious loop that took the world economy down the drain with it. We are seeing some positive movements in the market now, but the problem is still systematic, and it hasn't been addressed yet.

There is more to it, such as middle man investors, the rating systems basically taking bribes for better ratings on the derivatives, and just bad business practices. But the core of the problem lies in what is above.

ELY5: People got really greedy and started inviting people to a party in their house, and lied to them and that there was enough room for everyone in the party, when there really wasn't. And because the policemen who were sent to watch these people allowed them to have a big party, even though they knew that last time they did it the house got messed up, when the greedy people got too crazy, there was too many of them in the house and the house collapsed, and it made a big mess that will take a long time to fix.

Question: How can rain fall at different speeds?
Answer: Larger raindrops have higher terminal velocity than smaller raindrops due to mass increasing disproportionately with respect to the cross-section presented to the atmosphere in the "down" direction.

Question: Why does hot water rise and cold water sinks but ice floats?
Answer: Ice is less dense than water, due to a quirk of its molecular structure. When water freezes its molecules form ring structures, increasing the volume without increasing the total mass. This reduces density, and since objects less dense then the liquid they're in float, ice floats.

Question: How does esp and other sport networks come up with these obscure stats?
Answer: They have computer programs that do it. All the stats are recorded and maintained by either the league or the media themselves (usually both), so the data is all there. It's just a question of writing a computer program that pieces together stats out of that data, which isn't that hard to do: computers don't mind just combing through spreadsheets for hours.

The programs themselves aren't simple, but the basic idea is that you have the program constantly look for patterns of data and learn to flag it as "maybe this is interesting (it doesn't actually know)." So, since it's been keeping track, it knows that it hasn't seen the pattern of "lefty with 4 doubles, a single, and one error" since 1882, so that's rare enough to potentially be interesting.

edit: I should add that it's a person who actually chooses what goes on screen. The computer just gives them a bunch of options.

Question: when cannabis was still illegal in the US, how did high profile smokers e.g. Snoop Dogg, Seth Rogen etc. Not get charged for possesion?
Answer: Uh...I thought cannabis was still illegal in the U.S.
Maybe not all parts of it, but...you know...

Question: How do you tell the difference between a real and fake diamond with the naked eye?
Answer: Find some glass you don't care about and drag the diamond across its surface, a real diamond will score the glass whereas a fake diamond will just glide along.

Question: why is it comfortable to sleep under a warm blanket in a cool room but uncomfortable to sleep without a blanket in a warm room?
Answer: I just had a lecture on this last week. The main reason is that during REM sleep the way our body makes heat (thermogenesis) is much less efficient, almost to the point that we become "cold blooded". During REM sleep we don't make as much heat so our body temperature is dependent on our environment. We need to sleep with blankets because blankets keep the air around us warm enough that during REM sleep we don't get too cold. This is why we can get hot early in the night (when non-REM sleep occurs) but later on, in REM sleep, wake up and put blankets on because we are too cold. Also, when you nap for short periods of time, under 30 minutes or so, you don't enter REM sleep and don't need a blanket. The lack of thermogenesis during REM sleep is seen in all mammals, and all mammals have some sort of way to keep themselves warm during REM sleep, like nesting, using certain postures, or sleeping in packs. This excludes whales and dolphins which sleep with only half of their brain at a time.

A lot of people are mentioning stuff about not needing blankets when it's hot, or only needing them when cold. If you're sleeping in a room that's 98 degrees with no blankets, during non-REM sleep you will be too warm and during REM sleep you will be fine because the environment is at body temp. But if you are in a room that's 70 degrees without a blanket, during non-REM sleep you will be fine because your body can make heat, but during REM you will be very cold because your body's only source of heat is the 70 degree environment which is too cold. In general, our body's thermoregulation is better in non-REM sleep so we can cool off better in non-REM with blankets than we are able to warm up in REM sleep without blankets.

Sources: _URL_0_, _URL_1_

As other have said there is probably some conditioning involved too. If you can't nap for 30 minutes without a blanket the problem is not body temperature, you're just used to having blankets on. 

Edit. Another cool thing I learned: One of the first thing that happens when you reach even the lightest stages of sleep is that your body's temperature set point is "reset" and lowered. If you're ever sitting or laying down almost asleep and feel yourself get a little chilled, you probably fell asleep for a few seconds and your temperature point got reset. Some people end up sweating a lot early in the night due to their body trying to lower it's temperature to reach the new set point.

Question: What is an example of a second world country?
Answer: The meaning of "first" and "third world country" has changed from the cold war meaning to "rich" and "poor country". "Second world country" is not really used in the new context, instead in between countries are called things like emerging market and threshold country.

Question: Why are the censorship guidelines for song lyrics and music video content so different from censorship for something like film?
Answer: I think it's because of the replays. You go in to watch a movie and see it once. On your way to work/school/whatever, you could hear these songs 4 or 5 times, everyday. The repetition..
Edit: words

Question: How do people develop a phobia?
Answer: I just came here to point out that trypophobia isn't a real phobia. It's a survival thing. It stems from your body not wanting to enter a small space because if anything at all shifts you will be stuck in that space and die. I really hate how popular that phrase has become because it's as normal as a fear of the dark or sharp teeth.

Question: How does hair grow AFTER shaving?
Answer: Shaving only removes the hair that's exposed.  It does not remove the hair root.     Your leg hair will grow back after shaving

When it does grow back, the tip of the hair will be flat.  That's what causes the prickling.  Plucked hairs grow back more naturally feel

Question: Why Wikipedia is a good resource, or bad resource, for information.
Answer: Wikipedia is absolutely enormous, and has a huge amount of information on just about any subject, from Franco-Prussian relations regarding mules to a list of all sasquatch sightings. 

If even 1/100 facts are wrong, then every article will get a detail wrong, even with no malicious users. 

It gets problematic with any controversial subject. Is Barack Obama the best president known to man, or scientifically certified muslim atheist fascist commie who will drive America to ruin? Was George W. Bush the best president ever, or right-wing moron puppet nutjob who bankrupted companies because he has the IQ of a retarded squirrel? 

No one source can give you a balanced opinion.

There are two great ways to use any information source: use it for generalities (Obama is currently the president, he is a Democrat, and rather controversial), or use it as a source for more information by reading the cited articles. 

Never bet your life's savings on the accuracy of Wikipedia, or any other website, or really the newspapers or TV, probably not on the Encyclopedia Britannica, maybe on school textbooks, but definitely not on Reddit, this response included. 

TL;DR: This answer is probably wrong.

Question: If I bought a brand new muffler for a car, put it to my mouth and screamed, would it make any noise? Why/why not?
Answer: Mufflers are tuned in such a way to cancel out a specific type of noise. A 9 year old screaming would probably not be "muffled" to the extent that an engine is. [Read more here](_URL_0_).

Question: How does 3D computer graphics work, and what is the math behind them?
Answer: 3D computer graphics work through trigonometry. Since before the Renaissance, we've known how to move and rotate one point around another point, using properties of a right triangle ("sin" and "cosine" specifically.) So in the computer, we define "objects" by telling the computer a list of triangles defined by points in 3D space. Then we program trigonometry functions into the computer so that we can move and rotate those 3D objects.

The overwhelmingly vast majority of 3D computer graphics occur in 
simple "euclidean space", where one dimension goes forward/back, one dimension goes side-to-side, and one dimension goes up-and-down. There are a few special cases where we'll use different coordinate systems, such as in the case of spherical harmonics for advanced game lighting engines, or quaternion rotation for skeletal animation. 

"Wireframe graphics" is just a way of displaying objects. Instead of drawing each triangle, you just draw the edge around each triangle. This is useful if you want to get a clear look at all the triangles that make up the object, or if you want to see inside the object.

The "middle" point you are referring to is probably "the origin." The origin point is the point at coordinate [0,0,0] and all other points are defined in relation to it. I'm not sure what your "strange angle" is in regards to. 

There is no minimum distance between points in 3D computer graphics, beyond a thing called epsilon which is a side-effect of data precision (computers can only count to a limited number of decimal places.)

Question: why does some poop sink and others floats?
Answer: Just for a quick answer a poop that floats is caused by having a larger amount of fat in it.

Question: I've heard that roads tend to be safer without speed limits.  Why does the US still have them?
Answer: Because roads *are* safer with speed limits. There are many scientists who work in road safety, and they would be in 99% agreement over this. The European and Scandanavian countries that have the lowest fatality rates in the world also have the lowest speed limits (UK, Netherlands, Sweden).

Question: If someone were farsighted in one eye and nearsighted in the other, wouldn't they just balance out?
Answer: You aren't viewing the farsighted lens' vision through the nearsighted lens, to correct the farsightedness, or vice versa. 

You've got a farsighted (out of focus) image, and a near-sighted (out of focus) image. Two out of focus images.

Question: Why do all in-flight map screens seem to utilise the same laggy style and design in this day and age of Google Earth?
Answer: The computers on planes are years old because of the extensive and time-consuming safety testing they have to undergo, plus the delay in getting them installed (the airline doesn't like to take the plane out of service for upgrades).

Question: how are we able to manufacture computer processors with such high precision? Wouldn't just a few defective transistors out of the billions on the chip cause it to malfunction?
Answer: Actually, a lot of the transistors produced ARE defective. Sometimes yields are quite low... usually below 50%! The "secret" to producing chips that don't malfunction is that each chip is individually tested and verified to be working properly. Kinda like condoms :)

Question: Why does Zyrtec work for my feline allergies but not pollen?
Answer: no idea. zyrtec works great for me for allergies to pollen.

Question: How can old game emulators create save states perfectly at any moment?
Answer: An emulator is a lot like a virtual machine, in that you can do many more things (such as create snapshots of a single point in time) with them than you can with the operating system itself. A save state is a snapshot of the contents of the RAM within the emulated system, which can be loaded back into RAM by the emulator.

Question: The difference between feminism and equality?
Answer: Feminism is a movement or school of thought concerned with equality. 

Equality is a concept regarding the state of being similarly valuable. Equality in this context means people within society having equal opportunities or equal social status

Question: How auto-dimming rearview mirrors work
Answer: Yarr! Yer not alone in askin', and kind strangers have explained:

1. [ELI5: how do auto-dimming rearview mirrors work? ](_URL_0_)
1. [ELI5: how do autodimming mirrors work? ](_URL_1_)

Question: Why are parents more worried about giving their kids more freedom compared to the 70's to 90's when the crime rate was higher?
Answer: The actual crime rate was higher, but the perception of crime is higher now. Lots of people talk about how the world got unsafer. That is not based on actual crime statistics (which have all been going down) but rather on the fact that because we live in such an interconnected world nowadays, we hear *everything*. And we hear it 24/7 due to the constant news cycle. That means people are hearing about things that happen that they would not have heard about 20 or 30 years ago, which makes it seem like these things are happening more often to them.

Question: What is the difference between turbulent and laminar flow in a fluid?
Answer: Laminar as in layers.  In laminar flow, the layers of air flowing across a surface or through a conduit move in the same direction at the same speed.  In turbulent flow, the air tumbles around in different directions at different speeds.  You can see turbulent flow as you pour cream into coffee.

Turbulent flow makes cooling your PC less efficient.  Most PC enclosures aren't well-shaped to use laminar flow to increase cooling efficiency.  If the PC enclosure were essentially tubular with the circuit boards parallel to the axis, this would encourage laminar flow (Hmm, didn't somebody recently introduce a new computer designed this way?).

Turbulent flow also decreases the lift produced by an aircraft's wings.  If the "angle of attack" of the wing is essentially parallel with the air flowing over the wing, you get lift.  If the angle is too pronounced, air flow over the top of the wing becomes turbulent, robbing the wing of lift.  This is called a "stall."

Question: If students are unable to repay loans and have no bankruptcy protection, what are the negative effects for students?
Answer: I have defaulted student loans, so I can tell you *exactly* what the negative effects are for students.

Well, technically, if you're still a student, you can't really default on your debts, unless they were already defaulted when you became a student, but that get's confusing. So, let's assume you start out college with no student debt, and you accrue it through college.

DURING college, nothing bad happens. You just accumulate your debt, and depending on if it's subsidized or not subdidized, you may or may not accrue interest while in school.

After school, for typically the first 6 months, you do not have to repay. After 6 months, you are supposed to start paying. But let's say you don't. At that point you become *delinquent* in your loans - you're behind on payments. These show up as late payments in your credit history, not a great thing,but if you start paying, after a few years they fall off and you credit is generally OK.

After 12 delinquent payments - i.e. you have not paid anything for a year, your student loans will *default*. The lender will demand that they get repaid in full, and your credit will take a massive hit, because before, where you had your full debt in good standing, now the entire debt is listed in your credit as being owed, and that's a huge negative hit on your credit.

Now, at this point, if your loans are federal loans, you have the option to rehabilitate them - basically you enter into an agreement upon a mutually agreed monthly payment that you need to make for 9 consecutive months. If you succeed, your default and late payment history for that loan is completely removed from your credit history, and you start over with a fresh slate for the amount still owed on the debt.

If your loan is a private loan, however, you are screwed - you do not get the option to rehabilitate. All you can do is talk to your lender to make monthly payments if you cannot pay it in full until the debt is paid off, and the default will stay on your credit history until it falls off as per your state guidelines for credit history (typcially 5-7 years).

Now, let's say you don't get into a repayment plan, and you have a defaulted debt, and you don't ever talk to your lender. Well, that debt STAYS on your credit history, and sooner or later that lender will likely sue you for garnishment. Depending on the state, they may be able to garnish wages AND ALSO MAYBE any funds you have saved in savings or assets.  The garnishment will continue until the debt is paid off, and interest, although capped, is often VERY MUCH higher - 12% is typical. 

On top of that, with garnishment, you have to pay for court fees (because the lender needs to go back to the court regularly to continue garnishment and prove that you still owe money on the debt), so that's a further cost you have to pay, in addition to the interest and the original amount owed.

During garnishment, your loan will be listed as being in something along the term of "government mediation" or something like that. Basically, it's still a huge hit on your credit, and once you pay off the debt, the last you'll see of that history is 7 years AFTER the last payment.

So, don't default on  your debts.  I'm 34, I defaulted when I was 23. I've been in garnishment since I was 29. I will be done with garnishment when I am 36.

Question: How are large national gangs like the Bloods and the Crips organized? Is there actually a central leader or just a bunch of groups that call themselves "Bloods" and "Crips"?
Answer: The [STUFF YOU SHOULD KNOW](_URL_0_) podcast does an episode on exactly this.

Question: if we live inside the Milky Way, how can we see the whole thing in the sky at night?
Answer: We can't see the whole thing, or rather, the thing we call the Milky Way in the night sky isn't the entire Milky Way.  As you note, our sun and all of the stars near us are also part of the same galaxy.

However, we're way on the outer edge of the galaxy, which means that when you look in the direction of the center of the galaxy there are way more stars than if you look anywhere else.  So we call that mass of stars in the night sky the Milky Way, since it's the area of sky that's much more densely populated with stars than the other portions.

Question: What is the difference between the federal election process in America and Canada?
Answer: For starters, we Canadians don't have a separate election for Prime Minister the way Americans do for President. In our local ridings (us: electoral distrits) we elect our Members of Parliament (us:representatives/congressmen) to sit in the House of Commons (us: house of representatives). Whichever party ends up with the most seats in the house usually forms the government, and the leader of that party becomes Prime Minister.

There's no electoral college. Each riding is worth one seat in the house. The riding is won by the candidate with the most votes in that riding.  Ridings are delineated by population, and re-drawn as required after the census by a non-partisan department called Elections Canada. They are also responsible for all the legwork of running the actual election.

The campaigns leading up to the election are much shorter.  Campaigning can't begin until parliament is dissolved and lasts between then and election day. This past election had the longest such time in Canadian history - 78 days. Usually it's less than two months, many have been as little as 36 days. There isn't a full year-plus of campaigning ahead of time like in the US.

Each party's nominee is chosen by that party's members. In Canada you don't have to declare your party membership when you register to vote. In fact most people get registered to vote just by filing their taxes (there's a check box on your tax return that says "I agree to let Revenue Canada share my inforation with Elections Canada for the purposes of registering me to vote" and most online tax software just checks it automatically for you). So to become a member of a party you basically contact the party via their website or phone,  sign up, and pay whatever the membership fee is. Then when that party decides to have a leadership race, members log in and cast their vote online. Most votes wins. No delegates, no caucuses,  no lining up at voting booths for primaries.  In fact the leadership races for the parties are independent of the federal election process. They elect their new leader when the old leader steps down which could happen pretty much whenever. 

I'm on mobile so I'll wrap it up there but can answer any other questions that folks have. 

Source: Am Canadian who follows politics in both countries pretty closely.

Edit: Also we don't elect our Senate. The Senate up here works kind of like the Supreme Court in the US - near-lifetime appointments (they are now forced to retire at 75) made by Prime Ministers throughout the years. Many want that system to change but it would require changing the constitution and that's a big can of worms that no one wants to get into.

Edit 2: Made some corrections thanks to /u/hoffmania1 below.

Question: How do they get release from people of prank interviews?
Answer: Publicity. They understand its a joke show but there is a real underlying theme especially with the Colbert report. He has an agenda. That agenda is to inform people of real world events without bias by mocking the persona of similar news casters and exploiting their biases. Its purely entertainment but he's mocking the people he portrays. So you get important people on there not only for publicity but also to get their own message out there to a target audience.

Question: Why are there so many different forms of pasta? Isn't it all the same stuff? What's the difference?
Answer: Pretty much all pasta is made from the same 2 or 3 ingredients; Egg, semolina flour, or durum depending on where it comes from and where you are. Over time those ingredients have broadened but the base for all pasta is fundamentally the same. 

Now, as to the different forms: Ideally, you want to pair whatever sauce/protein you are using with a type of pasta that is going to best accentuate the dish. Different viscosity of sauce will hold better to certain pasta and give better effect. You wouldn't want to use a Capellini for something with a thick cheesy sauce because it would bind up and get messy. For the opposite side of the equasion you wouldn't want to use a thick noodle like a penne for a lighter sauce because much of the flavor will be lost due to the sheer amount of noodle present. Italian cuisine (especially in the US) is about bold flavors, sure, but you also want to have a dish that looks good, eats nicely and strikes a balance between texture and flavor. 

Truly a culinary item that speaks to the region it came from.

Question: Does the movie studio pay the movie theater to show their movie? Or does the movie theater pay the movie studio to bring in customers by letting them show their movie?
Answer: The movie studios and the theaters split the income depending on when people buy tickets to the movie, basically, each side gets a percent of ticket sales

For example:

Weeks 1  &  2: 90% studio / 10% theater

Weeks 3  &  4: 70% studio / 30% theater

Weeks 5+: 50% / 50%

This can and will vary depending on specifics and the specific movie.

As you can see, since most people view movies when they first come out as well, the movie studio is making their money there.

But so where do theaters make their money? Popcorn, sodas, and hot dogs, sold at gigantic markups.

Question: Why airlines don't sell empty seats on flights at cheap rates
Answer: Because people who purchase tickets last minute usually *have* to travel and will pay the full price.

It's rare that a plane will be relatively empty. When that happens, it's probably just a fluke. If a route regularly has a lot of empty seats, they airlines will drop one of the flights and put it on a more profitable route.

Question: What is HDR and why do people like it so much?
Answer: HDR stands for High Dynamic Range imaging. In laymen's terms, it takes several photos at different contrasts sort of at once, and then combines the images together. This way, the picture looks more like what your eyes see.

Question: Why is the Monarchy of the United Kingdom still held in high regard? What purpose do they serve?
Answer: The simple answer, Timmy, is tradition.  England has had a monarchy almost continuously for just shy of 1000 years.  Major historical events have centered around British Kings and Queens (the signing of the Magna Carta and the American Revolution for starters). People LIKE tradition, Timmy.  It makes them feel secure.  It let's them know that no matter how weird or strange the world may get, thre is still one thing they can look at and say, "Yup, I still understand this, and it won't change."

Question: I'm five, explain how Google works.
Answer: I actually am currently reading a book on Google and how it works. The search engine ELI5 link is good, but for Google specifically, they use keywords on websites to see what other websites are linked to it. The more traffic the linking websites get, the more important Google views them. Google also predicts similar words sequentially, so if you typed "trojan" you'd get condom links, but if you added "horse" you'd get historical pages. It searches through a literal "web" of linked websites.

Question: Why haven't we adopted IPv6 if we've practically 'run out' of public IPv4 addresses?
Answer: From an administrative standpoint there's a certain amount of legwork to be done to convert over to IPv6, but there would also be issues with legacy devices being able to access IPv6 addresses and I assume this has factored in sonewhat.

Also to be noted, ICANN (the organization that hands out blocks of IPv4 addresses to different regional organizations for further distribution to ISP's and governments) has officially distributed all available IP addresses to the regional organizations, but those latter groups haven't assigned them all yet. That is, we haven't actually run out of IPv4 addresses yet, but it will inevitably happen and sooner rather than later. The push to convert fully to IPv6 will continue to grow as that time gets closer .

Question: Why is desalination not yet a cost effective solution for the world's clean water demands?
Answer: There are only a few ways to desalinate water. One way is to boil and condense the water, a process called distillation. The problem with this is that it takes a relatively enormous amount of energy to boil water so it isn't practical. If we had limitless energy available to us then it would definitely be on the table, but we can't just pull huge quantities of heat out of nowhere.

The other way is to force the salty water through special filters which are fine enough to filter out the molecules of salt while letting the water molecules through. This also requires a fairly large amount of energy (pushing the water through requires a lot of pressure) and it also has the added trouble of fouling up the filters which need to be cleaned regularly.

Overall the process of removing salt from water is very difficult and usually not cost effective, compared to the natural water cycle where the enormous fusion generator evaporates water over hundreds of thousands of miles for free.

Question: Would a wet towel dry in space?
Answer: Yes, the water would vaporize due to the low (almost zero) pressure. You can see a similar effect when water in a sealed jar is placed under a vacuum--it begins to boil, even at room temperature.

_URL_0_

Question: Why you can drink in public, so long as your booze is in a brown paper bag.
Answer: She was just being nice. While they cannot legally search your bag without your consent, they can detain you until a warrant is filed or if there is probable cause to search (read:obvious intoxication).  Both of those take time.

The chatting may have just been a way to gauge how drunk you were.  She saw no over intoxication and didn't want to do paperwork.

Question: Why does the number on an analog bathroom scale go up when you bend down to read it?
Answer: A bathroom scale doesn't measure weight, it measures normal reaction.  
When you bend, the normal force on different areas of your sole changes to keep you from toppling over. If it increases at the place where the sensors are present, it gives a larger reading.  
A similar thing could happen if you stand on one foot/change posture to drastically shift the weight distribution.

Question: ppi of Laptops vs Cellphones
Answer: The price to produce a 17" display with 400 ppi so so high that no one would buy it, and also at that pixel density it's not supported by most laptops. Driving  that type of display takes decent graphics horsepower

Question: How does fundraising for cancer increase the chances of finding a cure?
Answer: It really, really depends who you give the money to.  There are many different things that cancer-related money can be spent on:

1. salaries and equipment of medical researchers
2. public education (eg, "don't forget your mammogram!")
3. public screening programs
4. treatment of sick people

All of the above are essential!  That said, only #1 is directly searching for a cure.  There's a huge amount of interesting research going on right now: immunotherapy, oncolytic viruses, metabolic chemotherapy, tons of new ideas - but that's a post for another time.  There's also a ton of research that *isn't* getting done because there's no money.

Some of the money given to charities is overhead, in that it pays to keep the charity running: for example, paying the salaries of fundraising-employees, instead of paying for cancer itself.

There are many cancer-related charities, and they're not all created equal.  Some of the biggest, most well-known charities are ... well, a little iffy, in that they may be wasting most of the money.  For example, one of the biggest charities has a CEO that earns a million dollars a year out of your donations.

The NCI (National Cancer Institute) is heavily involved in research, and they accept donations, and I believe they're very effective and clean.

To give you an idea whether or not the amount of money is sufficient to make a difference, here are some numbers:

* $0.4 billion: budget of one of the largest charities, Susan G Komen
* $5.0 billion: budget of the National Cancer Institute, a government agency.
* $100.0 billion: money we spend treating cancer every year.
* $150.0 billion: lost productivity when skilled workers die (estimate by ACS).

Finally: I know this subreddit is not for politics or bias, but I just have to say this: I feel  the amounts of money being spent these days are, in all honesty, inadequate.  I truly believe that the charity model simply isn't working.  I believe we need to make a decision as a society about whether or not we're going to get serious about this.

Question: Why did wireless charging take so long to come about given that the physical principles behind it are very simple?
Answer: One big issue to consider is the ubiquity of rechargeable devices. Sure, 10-20 years ago we could have made wireless recharging mats and the like, but there wouldn't be a reason. No one had devices that required frequent recharging. 

For example, my first cell phone a mere 10 years ago needed to be recharged once a week, sometimes less than that. My first laptop, approximately 17 years ago, had no battery, and needed to be plugged into the wall at all times.

Because there was no demand for wireless recharging, no one bothered to bring it to market until about 5 years ago, when the rise of the smartphone and tablet created a large market for convenient recharging.

Question: What is happening inside when I'm losing weight?
Answer: Usually, when the body gets more energy (calories) for what it needs for its internal functions (cell multiplication, moving muscles and heart beating, thinking, every single one of those would use up incredible amount of energy), it simply stores them as fat stored in several parts in your body for when it would need it.

When you "eat less", you simply offer less energy for the body and forces him to use up what you have of stored fat when it "moves more", causing weight to drop. No cannibalism here :)

Question: Why does looking at the horizon help against seasickness?
Answer: It gives your mind a frame of reference to determine exactly what is level. When you know what "level" is, your brain can deal with the motions reported by your inner ear.  

If you're inside a closed space and the boat is rocking around a lot, your eyes are telling your brain that you are standing on level ground, but the fluids sloshing around in your inner ear say you're bouncing all over the place. Being unable to ignore that difference tends to make some people sick.

Source: My seagoing, retired, Royal Marine grandfather. (35 years!)

Question: Why the order of numbers on a calculator and a phone dialpad are reversed?
Answer: Because the two standards were developed by different people at around the same time. Some of the early calculator manufacturers decided on the ascending pattern, some of the early keyed phone manufacturers decided on the descending pattern.

Question: Why does cable T.V. show advertisements, but Netflix, which is way cheaper, doesn't?
Answer: Two completely different businesses in two completely different industries, doing two completely different things.

Netflix started out as a movie rental company, and because it was a startup and not in the slow-moving cable industry, it was able to jump on streaming on-demand content before anyone else. 

Which is why Blockbuster is no more.

Cable's entire revenue model is based around advertisements.

Netflix's revenue model is subscription based, and they are smart enough to realize that no one likes ads when they watch TV.

Question: Why is "classical music" called classical music?
Answer: Well, some fancy dressed individuals first looked back to the time of Bach up until 1900 and called that the common practice era. The idea of common being when diatonic harmony, the grammatical rules like couterpoint, and the various forms (concerto, sonata, symphony, etc) were developed and became standard. Once you went after that, composers just do whatever they want like atonal stuff (Schoenberg) or thought experiments (Cage).

Then someone like yourself probably asked why is it called that, and these fancy-dressed people removed their monocles in astonishment. It does sound rather dull, so they used the word 'classical', since there were already precedents in literaure, philosophy, art and so educated people would get a wiff of what that means in terms of it being valuable. I.e. the formative period. Of course, there is a classical period within western art music, which sits between Bach's amalgamation of the best of baroque innovations, and the raging hormone era of the romantc composers. 

tl;dr: it sounds better than common practice era

Question: Why does AT & T giving customers unlimited streaming mean a "war on an open internet" ?
Answer: You want to watch a video on your mobile device.  

Both New Startup Video Service (NSVS)  and Big Corp Video Service (BCVS) have the video.   

Your mobile data provider says - watching the video on BCVS does not count against your limited data plan, but watching anywhere else does.   

You'll end up only using BCVS.  Consumers are incredibly price-driven.   After a few data overages, they'll stick to the free sites.    They'll avoid the small startup sites which drain precious limited bytes of your data plan - or they'll effectively have to pay to view non-approved content.

This provides a strong competitive advantage for large established companies - they can use the power of the purse to discourage you from visiting their competitor.  Only large, rich companies will be able to afford the payoff to ISP to have their service carried "free" on their Internet.  

Apply this concept your home ISP.  The entire Internet is now divided into what your Big Corp ISP says you can access for free, the rest is effectively subject to their toll.  

Now, let's have BigCorp ISP give everyone FREE internet - especially for the poor who cannot afford Internet.  Wait... only approved sites and services are free - if you go elsewhere, please provide credit card.   

Rather than people freely accessing the entirety of whats on the Internet, people will stick to the limited view of what's "free" and "approved".

Question: Why do countries still loan us money if we already owe trillions upon trillions dollars?
Answer: Because the US government is a very good credit risk. The Dollar is a stable currency, and the US repays its debts.

The US borrows money by auctioning off bonds. If people were afraid the US wouldn't repay, then the bids would come in lower. The effect is that the US would pay more interest on its bonds.

Today, the US can borrow for 1 year at 0.11% -- for every $1000 you lend them, they promise to repay you next year, plus $1.10. That's effectively nothing.

For longer periods, the US faces slightly higher rates, but it's the definition of a safe borrower.

You can find the rates [here](_URL_0_)

Question: How does currency in other countries have more value than currencies in different countires?
Answer: Supply and demand, let's pretend there are three guys in a world that Jelly beans are money. One guy has orange beans, one guy has black beans and one guy has blue beans. Each guy has five beans and they buy and work for more beans.

The orange bean guy said screw that and just made 10 more beans. The others complain and point out he shouldn't get more stuff cause he just made more beans. 

So no one can take advantage of bean making, they make 1 blue or black bean worth as much 3 orange beans. Since they have 5 and orange has 15.

Cause orange has higher supply yet the same demand as Blue and Black.

Question: When mouthwash says 'kills germ for 12 hours'
Answer: It is just an approximate of the tests done in the lab. It doesnt mean your mouth will be free of bacteria for 12 hours. The cleansing power decreases with time and rarely lasts for 12 hours. Usually after a meal the effectiveness is reduced considerably

Question: If our bodies are 37*C, why does water at that temperature feel warm?
Answer: One important detail - 37°C is the CORE (i.e. inside your body) temperature. Your hands (which you most likely use to touch the water) are cooler, significantly so in some people.

Question: What is the process of remastering old films/movies? Also, as a followup, how long does this typically take?
Answer: Strangely, (at least it seems strange to some people) regular old film is extremely detailed, somewhere around 25 megapixels per image. In order to distribute a movie, it gets converted to an easier-to-use format, but this process loses some of the detail. This isn't a problem because if they convert it to DVD, for example, they expect it to be shown on TVs of a certain quality, and there's no sense in going over that.

When they remaster a movie, they go get the original film, scan it into a computer at (nearly) full resolution, go over it frame-by-frame to remove scratches and dust, tweak the colors so it looks better, etc..

The end result is that they can then re-convert it to a new format (Blu-ray, for example) at a higher quality than the original release.

Question: Why do airport runways cost "14-18 billion pounds to build?"
Answer: very quick calculations at the rates we use for roads shows about 100 million dollars just to place the material, 3000m x 50m of crushed rock base and concrete surface.

thats the absolute bare minimum.

you also have costs with excavation, transportation, buying the land, fittings (lights and signs etc), probably as much pavement again with new taxi areas, this could easily be 400 million it looks like.

and thats for a very basic runway, with taxi access, in unoccupied land.

once you have to start buying up developed land, creating a huge new terminal, upgrading traffic access, upgrading plane handling facilities, etc, you doing the equivalent of creating a new full size international airport.

Question: How did artists like Van Gogh paint self-portraits without the painting being mirrored?
Answer: You could always make a trace first and flip it if you're that concerned about 100% accuracy, but I wouldn't assume that a lot of famous self portraits *aren't* mirrored unless there's a clearly defining asymmetric feature that's present in both portaits and self portraits.

Just a note about Van Gogh specifically, you could definitely get a picture done in 1880.

Question: Why is it that the majority of sinks dispense aerated bubbly water rather than a smooth uninterrupted stream? Is this done on purpose? If so why?
Answer: Yes it's done on purpose, the tap of your sink has an aerator on it.  If you look at it from below, you can see the little mesh screen, and you can unscrew it if you really want to.  It's in place to reduce the amount of water you use because you will almost never need a solid column of water.  It also helps to keep the water from splashing all over the place or coming out at weird angles.

Question: Why is the speed of light exactly 299 792 458 m/s?
Answer: All massless things travel at the same speed. Hence it can't go faster. Why do all massless things travel at the same speed? That comes from special relativity (SR), but one of the things that SR assumes is basically that light travels at the same (finite) speed according to everyone. That last assumption is pretty much just an [observable fact of the universe](_URL_0_) - I don't think we have a reason for it otherwise.

As for why the speed of light is 299,792,458 m/s, there are two meanings to that question. One, why that number? That's just because of the way we defined the units. In some units the speed of light is 1, in other units it's 299,792.458, and in other units it's all sorts of weird things.

The other way to interpret your question: why does light travel this far (\*gestures\*) in this time (\*counts out time\*) instead of this far (\*different gesture\*)? Well, we don't have a reason for that. Physics as we know it says that light has to have a speed, but there's no particular reason it should be one speed over another, at least not that we know of yet.

EDIT: Added a link.

Question: Why do humans get itchy/uneasy when looking at pictures or videos of bugs and/or spiders?
Answer: I'm not an expert but the fact that there can be thousands in an area or the fact that our brains think they are near us and we can't see them?  But mostly because we have knowledge of people being bitten by them.  You might ask then why are we not scared of pictures of lions probably less have been attacked by lions?  And the reason lions may be cuter is that they look more like us.

Question: Why is Tony Blair getting hate for the Iraq War now more than during the war itself?
Answer: Because various reasons were given before and during the war to justify British involvement such as alleged WMD's, Iraqi freedom and combatting terrorism. 

Now we know there were no WMD's, hundreds of thousands of Iraqis have died and are still suffering through civil war and terrorism is arguably a greater threat to the UK than it's ever been. 

The power vacuum caused by the collapse of the regime allowed the Islamic State to suddenly arise and capture huge territories which is a relatively recent event. 

As for Tony Blair, well, it was ultimately his decision to commit to the invasion and now that it can safely be called a disaster and he's no longer PM some people feel he needs to be held accountable for that, some even going so far as to brand him a war criminal. The Chilcott Inquiry found that the invasion was ordered with little or no decent intelligence to support it and that peaceful options were largely ignored. That Inquiry finally concluded in 2016 after 7 years which might also explain why you're hearing more about it now.

Question: How do astronauts get enough air?
Answer: The ISS atmosphere is 21% oxygen 79% nitrogen at 1atm pressure.

Oxygen production is carried out by electrolysis of water in the station's 2 oxygen generation systems (ECLSS in the US Discovery module, and Elektron in the Russian Zvezda module). Backup is provided by oxygen tanks and emergency solid fuel oxygen generators. Computers monitor the air quality constantly and introduce more oxygen when it's needed. Carbon dioxide is removed from the air by chemical scrubbers.

Question: What is the idea behind people being 'served' papers, usually through some form of trickery as seen in media.
Answer: I served papers for about 3 months. It was an allright job but could be a pain in the ass.  I personally never had to use any trickery. I just walked up to there door and knocked. A few people did avoid me. My boss did not use trickery she would just sit outside there house and wait. Eventually people have to come home. The worst part of the job though is that served a few people divorce papers who appeared not to be expecting them.  Just seeing that crushing look of defeat on people's faces was a bit much for me.

Question: What does it mean when Nasdaq or Dow Jones drops a point? How does it affect me?
Answer: I believe that the Nasdaq and Dow Jones are analytical indexes using the stock prices of a specific list of companies.

Because stock prices are constantly changing, viewing just one of them doesn't give you a good idea how the entire market is doing, and there are too many companies out there to see each and every one.  But by combining a few companies together, analysts can get an idea what's going on.

They are going to bounce around a bit no matter what.  Minor changes don't really mean anything.  It's more about trends.  If the index is trending up, it means that the market is growing, and if it's trending down it means that it's not doing well.

As for how it affects you, unless you have money invested in the stock market it really doesn't affect you directly.  It can affect you sort of indirectly because the stock market's performance is also important in the overall economy.

Question: Context
Answer: You have a thing, the context of that thing is all of the other bits in that thing's past and present environment which give it meaning.

A man covered in blood holding a knife is a thing. If you saw this person on a street with people running away screaming, you would draw different understandings than if you saw that person on stage with people delivering scripted lines around him. Without a proper understanding of context, it is difficult to draw deeper understandings about a thing.

In the world of literature, context will usually refer either to the internal context of the writing, the bits that are actually written down, or the external context, the world that the writer was experiencing which helped to shape the choices that the writer made.

Question: Why does the death penalty cost tax payers more than life without parole?
Answer: All of the appeals that are allowed before the sentence is carried out. Court costs

Question: Back in the first half of the 20th century, how were movies edited? What was used to apply special effects? How was the movie distributed to theaters before any major digital technology came out?
Answer: You know how in video editing they call it a "cut"?  Well, in the film days movies were edited by literally cutting the film with a razor blade, and gluing it onto other film.  

Special effects were largely done practically during shooting.  For example, they would use a mirror to make it look like an actor was inside a building, and in reality the building would be a 3 foot tall model and the actor would be standing beside it.  Some post-production effects existed, such as overlaying one set of film on top of another to make a "ghost".  

When a movie was finished, the film negative "master" would be used to make copies of the film  This was done by putting the film frame by frame over fresh, unexposed film, and then a big flash bulb would expose the bottom layer *through* the top layer (the master).  This would create a film positive, which would then be used to create the duplicate negatives that go to theaters. This process was order of magnitudes more expensive than the flash drives we use now.

Question: Why are there poisonous additives in cigarettes?
Answer: They aren't added, for the most part. Let's start with the things you mentioned. Arsenic is a naturally occurring element (although in this case, the word refers to any of the many Arsenic-containing compounds found in soil and water). If it occurs in soil and water, there's a fairly decent chance it gets into plants in some way. Tobacco is a plant. Hence it absorbs Arsenic compounds and tends to release them when burned. Hydrogen Cyanide, however, is for most purposes not naturally occurring. In the specific case of cigarettes, it comes from the actual combustion reaction that we call smoking. 

Let's go over some of the other "additives" that are reportedly added to cigarettes:

* Tar: Basically just the partially burned remains of smoking.
* Acetaldehyde: Again, by-product of smoking.
* Formaldehyde: By-product of smoking.
* Lead: Captured by the tobacco plants themselves and not completely removed during processing. 

In short, inhaling smoke regularly is a bad idea. Don't do it. The additives themselves are typically food-grade substances and harmless for the most part. It is the plant itself and partial combustion that causes the majority of the harmful effects of tobacco.

Question: What are the limitations that prevent us from making super-fast vehicles (e.g. 1,000mph cars)
Answer: 1) Wind resistance.  The amount of force needed to accelerate goes up with the square of the speed you are going.  Going 200 mph requires 4 times as much horsepower as going 100 mph.

2) Heat.  Putting out large amounts of horsepower requires you to dissipate all the waste heat.  The Bugatti Veyron (fastest road going car) has 10 radiators for this reason.

3) Downforce.  Your car has to sit at least a little above the ground.  Unless you take special steps, it will actually start generating lift if you are going fast enough, and eventually take off like an airplane.  That's bad.  Stopping this from happening is easy, just generate downforce to compensate for the lift.  But downforce increases wind resistance, see 1)

4) Weight.  All the equipment to solve the above problems, larger engine, etc. weighs something.  Every pound takes energy to accelerate.  Which requires an even bigger engine, more cooling, etc.  Very quickly you start to get diminishing returns.

5) Stopping.  Brakes operate by converting momentum into heat.  It's very difficult to convert the momentum of a very heavy, very fast object into heat slowly enough to not destroy whatever material your brakes are made of.  This is why super cars have brakes made of exotic materials like carbon ceramic.

6) Safety.  This is probably the biggest one.  F1 designers have had the ability for years to make a faster car than the regulations will allow.  But it would be nigh undriveable.  Apparently the drivers would have required G-suits like fighter pilots just to stay conscious.  And that was in the nineties, imagine what they can do now!


We're perfectly capable of making engines that can go very very fast.  Some top fuel dragsters may put out 10,000 horsepower, we're not sure, it's hard to measure.  When it comes to speed, it's everything but the engine that's the problem.

Question: How does observing an electron modify how it acts?
Answer: **EDIT** When thinking about this, including reading my post, replace the word "observation" with "interaction." It will make a bit more sense and not seem so surreal. 

---------------------------------------------------------


Wow. The most correct answer is neutral, and a mostly wrong answer is top.

**Here's the real reason:**

When people first started investigating light, they noticed it kind of behaved a like a bunch of balls (photons) sometimes, but at other times it would behave like a splash in a pond (electromagnetic waves). It seemed like if the scientists were trying to measure the light, it would behave like a ball, but they knew that some other properties would only exist if it was a wave! A problem indeed.

To figure out which one it was, they devised the double slit experiment. It's basically taking a piece of metal, cutting two tiny slits in it, and putting a piece of film behind it, then shooting light at the two slits. They knew that if light was a bunch of balls, it would make two stripes. If it was a splash in a pond, it would make a series of stripes.

What they discovered was perplexing. In this experiment, the light behaved like a wave. In other experiments, it behaved like a particle. This created what's known as wave-particle duality. They decided that light is both a wave, AND a particle! Pretty weird - but light itself is pretty unique, so it's kind of understandable.

Now, some physicist decided to try throwing *matter* at the two slits. He took electrons and shot them at the slits one at a time. Here's where things got even more weird... Even *electrons*, which are *matter* showed the exact same behavior. When they were being observed (i.e. gold foil experiment, touching things, atomic bombs, etc), matter clearly behaved like particles. But when they were *not* being observed (the double slit experiment) matter behaved like a wave! What the fuck, right?!

**So. The reason this happens is this:** all matter is both a wave *and* a particle. The universe simply *doesn't care* which one it is until something *forces* it to be one or the other. Most forms of observation require the wave-particle to be a particle because most forms of observation require an interaction. The interaction means the universe has to make up its mind really quickly, and it does that by transforming the wave into a particle - because then it is definite where and what it is (minus the Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle). 

The double slit experiment is unique in that we can observe it without interacting with it directly. When the light travels through the slits, it doesn't know there's film back there. The universe doesn't have to make up its mind yet. So, it's fine with being a wave when it passes through the slits. When it hits the film, the pattern it makes indicates that it was a wave when it went through the slits.



Does that make sense?

**TLDR: Matter (and light) is a wave and a particle. The universe doesn't care which until *something* forces the universe to make up its mind. It could be a magnetic field, a photon bouncing off of it, another particle bumping into it, etc. We can't observe the wave-particle without touching it with things, which makes it automatically turn into a particle. The double slit experiment allows us to determine if it was a wave or particle when it passed through the slits, without making it turn into a particle. That's when we figured out that it's a wave when we're not bouncing things off of it.**

**EDIT** Please give [this comment](_URL_0_) an upvote. He's correct and shouldn't be down to negatives.

Question: Why is it wrong for a country to save a lot of money?
Answer: Basically German domestic consumption is really, really low because they save so much. 

Consumption is what drives economic activity and the Eurozone in particular has suffered from a dearth of consumer spending. 

The fact that Germany has tons of money but squirrels it away in corporate and government savings accounts rather than spending it or passing it on to workers to spend while Europe's economic growth is anemic is bad policy, in the magazine's opinion.

Question: What does the President of France do as Co-Prince of Andorra?
Answer: The coprinses have, like most heads of state of modern monarchies, more of a ceremonial function than a political one. The don't even have the right to veto governmental decisions. They are also have representatives in place so the President of France will normally not directly concern Andorran affairs that often.

The real power lies with the parliament and their head of government, Antoni Martí. So not much difference there compared to other democracies.

Question: Why can we see faraway light source (e.g. cars, lamps, stars) clearly when it doesn't seem to illuminate my position?
Answer: The difference is this: For you to see light, the light has to be strong enough to reach your eye and produce a reaction there. For it to illuminate you, it would have to reach you, scatter off you, reach someone else's eye, and produce a reaction there. During the scattering, the light is spread out more, so it becomes fainter.

Let's look at the case of a laser pointer. Point the laser at the wall, and the scattered light is comfortably visible. Point it at your eye, and you're looking at serious eye damage.

Question: The differences between Communism, Socialism, Marxism, etc...
Answer: there is a lot to be said here but i'll keep it real simple.

marxism: this a philosophy - a way to analyze and understand the world. marx developed the logic of dialectical materialism (which is a whole complex topic itself) and used it to understand society in economic and political terms and he drew many important conclusions from it. both socialism and criticism of capitalism predates marx. what he did though was explain in a scientific manner exactly why capitalism was bad and why we should move to socialism.

socialism: an arrangement of society in which the workers own the means of production. the means of production is all that is necessary for human production aside from the humans themselves. e.g. land, tools, buildings, etc. as a result of this the workers also own the things they produce.

capitalism: an arrangement of society in which the means of production are privately owned, meaning that an individual can claim ownership of the means of production (as backed and enforced by the state) without actually having to perform labor on it. they can then hire workers to do the producing, and the capitalist (the owner of the means of production) collects the products a the end of the day and sells them for a profit. this creates two basic classes of human beings when it comes to production - the owners, aka the bourgeois, and the people who do not own any means of production and must sell their labor to the owners, aka the proletariat.

communism: a specific type of socialism. it carries all the same characteristics of socialist production but differs in distribution. whereas the mantra of socialism is "from each according to his ability to each according to his work" meaning that workers are directly compensated by owning the productions of their labor, the communist mantra is "from each according to his ability to each according to his need" meaning that society produces what is needed by the people. everyone is taken care of as best as possible.

-isms: stalinism, trotskyism, maoism, castroism, etc. are all real world attempts at using the teachings of marx to create a communist society. each had their own ideas of how to achieve it which were all of course unique to the conditions of their situations. lenin made the first major attempt after the russian revolution. his main idea was to make use of a vanguard party that would take power and oversee the transition from a rural feudal society to a modern communist society. stalin relied on a strong bureaucracy and believed that the revolution should be contained within one country. trotsky broke with him on this and believed there should be a global permanent revolution. mao saw the soviets as yet another imperialist state and thought the revolution should come from the peasants in a people's war.

these are all gross oversimplifications and each of them contributed extensive intellectual works to the marxist tradition but there is simply way too much to cover for ELI5. also marxism is so much broader and deeper than the simple "capitalism bad, communism good" that it gets presented as and in fact can and has been applied to nearly all aspects of life. if you'd like to know more i highly recommend /r/communism101.

Question: Tv/Cable, ISP, Phone companies
Answer: LOL nobody in this thread knows what the fuck they're talking about. The definitive answer is the Telecommunications Act of 1996, signed by Bill Clinton.

This act deregulated markets to allow corporations to operate across state lines, ostensibly to foster competition. In reality all it did was let the mega-corporations gobble up everyone else, resulting in *decreased* competition year after year until ultimately only one or two two remained per any given region.

Question: What is it about overheating that is bad for computer parts?
Answer: Simple, Heat causes things to expand very slightly. Lets say you have a microchip that's just been soldered onto a circuit board, and it runs very hot. The circuit board around it doesn't run hot since it's a circuit board, which means the microchip expands, putting STRESS on those solder joints. Those can eventually crack and disconnect.

Question: what is the format of the AFL/NFL from the start of season to the SuperBowl?
Answer: AFL isn't a thing anymore; it merged with the NFL many years ago.

There's a preseason, but results there don't affect a team's progression. The season proper starts with the "regular season." Each of the 32 teams plays 16 games over a 17-week season. The teams are organized into two conferences (AFC and NFC) of 16 teams each, and each conference has 4 divisions of 4 teams each. A team's regular season games are as follows:

* 2 games each against the other three teams in their division
* 1 game each against all four teams in another division in the conference (the divisions are paired up, so all four teams in one division play all four in another)
* 1 game each against the teams in the two remaining divisions in the conference who had the same division rank last year. That is, if the NFC North division is paired with the NFC East division this year, then the team that won the NFC North last year plays the winners of the NFC West and NFC South divisions from last year.
* 1 game each against all four teams in a division in the *other* conference. Again, divisions are paired up, so every team in one division plays every team in another division.
* Lastly, one bye week where they don't play a game.

------

After the regular season, it goes to the playoffs. The playoffs are done by conference; a team won't play anyone from the other conference until the Super Bowl. The team with the best record in each division goes to the playoffs; also, each conference has two *wild cards*, which are the teams in the conference with the best records who did *not* win their division. The teams are seeded in each conference; the division winners are seeded as 1-4, and the wild cards as 5 and 6, according to records (it is actually quite common for the wild cards to be better than the worse division winners; if you're second place in a good division, you're probably better than the winner of a bad division). Then, the 3 seed in each conference plays the 6 seed, and the 4 seed plays the 5 seed in the first playoff round (1 and 2 seeds have a bye). The losers are eliminated. The 1 seed then plays the lowest-seeded team remaining, and the 2 seed plays the other remaining team. Again, the losers are eliminated, and the winners of this round play for the conference championship.

After the conference championship is decided, the champions meet in the Super Bowl, which is the NFL championship game.

Question: How does medicine work with our body to relieve pain in different parts of our body? Back ache-Take an asprin. Tooth ache-Take the same asprin.
Answer: Pharmacist here. To ELI5 this: basically, there are enzymes which facilitate reactions (cause them to happen more rapidly and more often) which cause signals to be sent producing pain. The name of the enzyme medicines like Ibuprofen target is called cyclo-oxygenase, or COX for short. Meds like this are closely related to the chemicals in the body which actually activate this enzyme, and the med takes the place of the body chemical, but do not activate the enzyme, causing it not to activate. That's it on a molecular level, and that happens many, many times when you take medicine. This causes the pain signal not to be sent. This is an example using NSAIDS. There are many other types of pain medications, all having unique ways in which they stop pain (Tylenol, opioids).

Question: - Bandwidth and broadband linespeed
Answer: _URL_0_ gives you the results in bits per seconds, while it's generally presented in bytes per second in applications used for downloading. So when you're downloading at 1.1MB/s, you're using 8.8Mb/s, because 1 byte is 8 bits.

Question: Where Did the First Living Cell Come From
Answer: We don't know every step that needed to happen, but we know a few.

After sealing water, ammonia, methane and hydrogen, in sterile bottle, heating it and cooling, adding few sparks of electricity (simulating lightning) some amino acids form. AA are basically building blocks of life, just like bricks are building blocks of a house. 

Another experiment shown, that drying the amino acids made them into long, interconnected structures that are now called "proteinoids". They are not technically alive, but have outer wall, and can divide themselves into two smaller proteinoids. It is believed, that these structures provided a place in which other minerals and compounds might have concentrated and created more complex stuff.

So basically a primordial soup.

Question: Why does tap water seem to taste better or worse in different areas? Is it because of what we've been accustomed to or is it a mix of minerals that actually contribute to the taste?
Answer: There is a lot of variety regarding minerals in the water in different places, plus different water sources that need more or less treatment and may have undesirable tastes or colours from contaminants or byproducts. Water quality can vary greatly, even water deemed "safe" can be of a lower quality in one area than in another.

Question: Why do tired children become all restless, not calm? That does not seem to make sense. Or does it?
Answer: Based upon my 14 month old daughter, it's because they're fighting the sleepiness. Their bodies are telling them that they need to rest, but their mind is telling them that they want to keep playing and explore and interact or whatever. 

It's how bedtime goes most nights. She fights it and gets crazy and squirms around refusing to give in, until suddenly she just hits a point where she gives up. Then her head goes on my shoulder and thirty seconds later she's out for the night.

Question: How do they estimate the number of people in enormous crowds?
Answer: by area that they occupy and density (distance people stand from one another) Often these estimates are fairly innacurate but they do give a decent picture

Question: How can meteorologists predict temperatures, even within 2-3 degree ranges?
Answer: Lots and lots and lots of data, math, and modeling. We have collected temp, rain, sunlight, storm and all kinds of other data globally, in detail, for almost a century. That data comprises a timeline of how certain conditions may change in the immediate future. If things looked exactly the same as they do today fifty years ago, there is a decent chance the same things will happen after that.

But that isn't enough. We also plug that data into predictive models, basically gigantic, complicated math problems, which attempt to solve for future weather conditions. We have had many years of practice and absolutely huge amounts of computer time to refine those models, so they have improved immensely from when we first started doing this. The models aren't always right because they are probabilistic: they only give a percent probability something will happen rather than whether it will or won't. In something like physics, the degree of error these models have would not be anywhere close to acceptable (they require five sigma, or 99.9999% or better), but because of how random the weather is, even regularly being off by 10% or more is acceptable.

The models get worse the further out you stretch them. They're pretty good at one day into the future, much worse at two, and those "rest of the week" forecasts are wrong so often because the model breaks down completely at that point. Interestingly, this is why you *cannot* accept the claims of meteorologists on climate change. A meteorologist's work is entirely focused on the next week, maybe a little more, and they know how relatively bad their models are. Therefore, they often think, "If my model breaks down within a week, how could climatologists have a model that works over hundreds of years?" The answer is that the models are totally different and working with vastly different kinds of data. Meteorologists only have about the past century of data to work with, climatologists have hundreds of millions of years to work with due to data from tree rings, ice cores, and rock chemistry. In addition, that data is more a snapshot of how an entire year looked rather than how one day looked. They don't compare at all.

Question: How does salt act as preservative in food?
Answer: Salt kills bacteria and molds by drying them out. The growth of bacteria and molds is what makes your food go bad, so inhibiting the growth of those stops your food from going bad.

And no, the food does not get less salty as time passes. Maybe the salt becomes more evenly distributed, but the amount of salt remains the same.

Question: why in Germany or The Netherlands the youth unemployment rate is under 9% while in countries such as Greece, Spain and Portugal the same rate ranges from a 40% to 60%?
Answer: It is often a statistical illusion (but not always).

Employment is calculated as "number of people employed" divided by "ACTIVE population" which is the population looking for a job.
In order to have high figure of employment (ie a low for UNemployment), you can either have a high number of people employed AND/OR a LOW active population.

Unlike what most journalists say, an unemployment rate is not the percentage of youth NOT having a job, it is the percentage of youth IN THE ACTIVE POPULATION, not having a job. If almost no youth is in the active population, a high unemployment in that category is not a problem.

Countries have VASTLY different active population, especially for the youth. 

If in country A 80% of the youth are full time students not looking for work, and 10% are having a full time job, and 10% are looking for one, you'll have youth unemployment rate of 50% (only 20% are in the labour force, 80% are not so those are not counted to calculate the unemployment).
If in country B you have 50% of the youth as full time students, 40% having a job, and 10% looking for one (ie same overall figure as country A), you'll have a youth unemployment rate of 20%. 

But is the country B in a better situation? Are the youth of country B working because they can't afford to study (because studies are too expensive) or because they finished them early (less education than country A) or because they have a better job market?

One needs to ALSO look at the employement/total population ratio. In some countries, it is very high (ie every one works, regardless of age and sex). In others it is very low (only few categories work).


If you look at this data:
_URL_0_

You'll see for the 15-19 age bracket both sexes, VERY different Labour participation rates (ie the number of people actually in the labour force, having or looking for a job):
Germany 28.5% and Greece 8% 2012. So youth unemployement rate of let's say 10% in Germany means 2.85% of total youth are looking for a job. The same 2.85% would mean 35% unemployement in Greece because of its much lower active population.

If you look at the real figures you have for 2012 in 

A. Employment/total population:
France (9.7%) Germany (25.8%) Greece (2.8%) USA (26.1%)

B. Labour force/population
France (14.4%) Germany (28.5%) Greece (8%) USA (34.4%)

C. Unemployment rate (A/B)
France (32.7%) Germany (9.2%) Greece (65.7%) USA (24%)

But what does C represents in matter of total population? This is what is important to really gauge the scale of the problem. The number of youth looking for a job/total youth population, ie the UNEMPLOYEMENT/POPULATION. For Greece, this means 65.7% (very high scary figure) but of ONLY 8% of the youth (super low)

Here is the result, ie the percentage of youth unemployed (ie looking for a job) of the total population of youth (and not only those in the active population).

France (4.7%) Germany (2.7%) Greece (5.2%) USA (8.3%)

So the unemployment of youth concerns a much bigger part of the youth population in the US than in Greece... even though its unemployment rate is many times smaller (24% vs 65.7%)...

Question: What being "spiritual" but not religious means?
Answer: When people say they are 'religious', it generally means they can put a name/label to their beliefs (ex. I am a Christian/Muslim/Buddhist/etc). When people say they are 'spiritual', it usually means they believe in a higher power/supernatural forces but don't have a name for it (ex. they believe in miracles, but they don't think that 'God' or any specific deity is the cause of those miracles).

Basically, a person who is religious is almost always spiritual (ex. a Christian believes in Jesus Christ AND miracles), but a person who is spiritual is not usually religious (ex. a person who believe in miracles but NOT Jesus Christ).

Question: The IMF and their relationship to Greece and Germany.
Answer: The IMF was originally created to serve as an international institution to prevent another Great Depression and World War from happening. Much of the discussion that went into creating the IMF also serves as the global financial backbone of the world economy. I wouldn't say that they have complete control over Greece but they have a lot of influence in what is happening right now. As you may remember Greece has had a pretty horrible debt crisis. The IMF is deeply involved in a bailout of Greece as the financial situation of Greece is still not great.

Question: How come putting your hand over a cut/burn/bump as a kid made it seem to hurt less?
Answer: From an article I found:

“Uniting two parts of the same body, Kammers explains, sends diverse signals to the brain about temperature, spatial position and identity that can come only from self-contact. In this case, bringing all three fingers together probably provided the brain with enough comparative information to readjust its interpretation of skin temperature on each finger. “When you get input from many different signals, the brain increases the coherence of its body map, which reduces acute pain,” Kammers says. The new findings parallel previous work demonstrating that adding more sensory input can relieve chronic phantom limb pain experienced by some amputees: when a mirror tricks the brain into thinking the body is whole again, the pain subsides.” [Link to the article](_URL_0_) 

Yet another reminder that the human brain is ridiculous.

Question: If you are killed out in public (i.e. hit by a car, stabbed, etc.) how do the police find out who your next of kin is to notify them?
Answer: Depends. The easiest way would be to find your wallet. They also try and ask people around the scene or wait until a missing persons report is filed.

Edit: Oh and fingerprint, dna, and dental records can be used too.

Question: nitroglycerin pills for heart attacks vs. nitroglycerin needs to be handled carefully or it blows up. How is this the same substance?
Answer: Nitroglycerin tablets are solid. It is the liquid form that is unstable. This link might help you _URL_0_

Question: How is it that Sweden has a lower GDP per capita than Mississippi, but a much higher standard of living?
Answer: Sweden doesn't have a lower GDP per capita. Mississippi's GDP per capita in 2015 was $35,717. Sweden's was around $50,000. 

GDP per capita also doesn't take into account wealth distribution. If a few people make billions of dollars in a year while most everyone else just makes a few thousand, you can have a high GDP but the standard of living will still be low for most people. There are a few ways to measure income inequality, but the Gini coefficient is a common one. A 1 for a Gini coefficient means complete inequality and a 0 means complete equality. Sweden had .273 Gini coefficient in 2012 and Mississippi had .468 in 2010 (it was .469 for the US as a whole), so Sweden also has more equal wealth distribution, which generally leads to a higher average standard of living.

Question: How does color mixing work? What exactly does the mixture of blue and yellow do to always create green?
Answer: If you're talking about paint, the pigment (material that gives color) reflects light at a certain wavelength. Light at that specific wavelength has energy and stimulates light-receptors in your eye which sends a signal to your brain, which you interpret as seeing a specific color. Pigments in paint are suspended in some kind of medium (acrylic, oil, etc). When you mix the paints the tiny, microscopic pieces of pigment get mixed together and reflect two wavelengths. Those light waves stimulated your eyes in multiple ways, and create a mixed signal that your brain interprets as a new color. Wavelengths of blue and yellow, when viewed together, stimulate everyone the same way to create green. People who are color blind may not see it as green of course because there is a defect in their color vision. Color is subjective, it doesn't really exist until your brain interprets it. Wavelength of light is "objective" color. Blue is roughly 450-500 nm, Yellow is roughly 600-625 nm. Green is around 550nm. As you can see, green lies between blue and yellow on the spectrum.

Question: why does rice have more genes than humans do?
Answer: The number of genes isn't what determines complexity, it's how those genes are used. Imagine the same principle with language. If you try to describe something simple with thousands of words, your description isn't more complex than a short and precise one. To oversimplify: In plants, 10 genes might do 10 different things. In mammals those 10 different things could be done with 1 gene. It's the context in which the gene is used that determines what it does.

Question: If marriage is a legal framework, why is adultery not a punishable offense?
Answer: It is - in most places - grounds for the dissolution of the contract of marriage - aka divorce.  There are plenty of contract violations that are not criminal offenses.

Question: Why does burnt stuff taste so bad?
Answer: It's because foods have sugar in them.  Caramelization is what makes the sugar taste sweet, and if it burns, the compounds in the sugar change, making it taste bitter. So basically, the hotter the sugar gets, the bigger the taste will differ.

Question: If WWI and WWII never happened, what would the be our current population on earth.
Answer: There is no way to know because history would be entirely different. Maybe we wouldn't have been so hesitant about using nuclear weapons in the Cold War since no one saw the destruction caused by the atomic bomb and we would have nuked ourselves into near-extinction. Or maybe we would have all gotten along really well and have about 20 million more people around today.

Question: How does a fingerprint scanner work?
Answer: These scanners look for certain points on the fingerprint and then convert it into a hash, a number, to compare it against the enrolled fingerprints. Not all points need to match, allowing a bad image or damaged finger to authenticate. Given the hash you can not recreate the finger print. Some scanners, like ones at police stations or jails, do keep an image of the fingerprint which allows a visual check by a person if needed.

Finger print scanners seem like a good security feature at first to fullfill authentication, but it has a very serious problem; finger prints can not be revoked from the user. If a malicious person gets your finger prints then it is impossible for you to securely use fingerprint authentication. If somebody managed to steal your password you can change it, if they get their hands on an authenticator you can remove it from your account. Such things can't be done to your finger prints.

Question: Why aren't American politicians taking payments from companies prosecuted/fined/penalised for bribery/corruption?
Answer: They aren't taking direct money into their pockets.  That would be bribery.

Super PACs that support them and run all of their advertising, lawyers, strategists get the money.  This is considered separate.

Question: Why does it take several decades to dismantle a nuclear power plant and only a few years to build it?
Answer: While being built, none of the parts are radioactive. You don't need any special protection and can discard waste as any other construction site. However, many of the components become radioactive during use. Waiting some time allows the radiation levels to drop off, and upon dismantling, the waste must be carefully monitored and disposed of to minimize exposure to the environment and crew.

Question: Do the countries where the immigrant children escape to the US (like Honduras) want the kids back? What are the reactions of those governments and what happens when those kids are sent back?
Answer: It is rare for children to escape to the US by themselves.  Usually it is the parents who are escaping and they are bringing their children with them. It is rare that a government cares about the children except as part of a family. Generally, it is the parents that the government wants back, and the children just go with them.  

There was a case a while back where a mother and her child were escaping from Cuba by boat. During the voyage, there was a storm, the boat sank, and the mother drowned.  The boy and the others who survived were rescued by fishermen and given to the US coast guard.  The boy was turned over to live with some relatives in Miami.  

Meanwhile, the father, who did not want to escape to the US, demanded that his son be returned.  The relatives refused, and the conflict escalated.  On one side were the relatives, and Cubans living in Miami who said the boy should stay, and on the other were the boy's father and both the governments of Cuba and The United States, demanding that the boy be returned to his father in Cuba.

Eventually, the US sent heavily armed border patrol agents to the relatives house and took the child by force.  He was returned to his father in Cuba.

Question: Why is it common for McDonalds in multiple countries to have technical "problems" with their ice cream machines?
Answer: It doesn't break. It's down for maintenance.  The maintenance cycle takes a few hours and they can only perform maintenance during work hours.

Question: Do mental issues run in the bloodline or do they develop, if they do, what causes them?
Answer: "Mental issues" is very vague here.  Some have genetic factors, some are exclusively a result of some sort of trauma, and many are in between.  It *really* depends on which one you're talking about.

Question: How did Brachiosaurus' find enough Vegetation to eat, and how were plants enough for this huge animal?
Answer: They dont have to chase their food and theres a lot of it so they spend their entire day eating. Its just like how cows produce insane amounts of meat from mostly grass or hay. Because they eat constantly.

Question: Why do people who plea guilty in court get time knocked off of their sentence when they still committed the same crime?
Answer: Costs the state a whole lot less if they can avoid a trial, guarantees a conviction, etc. It's a form of leniency for admission of guilt and saving resources.

Question: Why does it take so long to download something but such a short amount of time to delete it?
Answer: When you download something every individual byte of information has to travel down the line to your computer. So it has to sent that amount of information. For example maybe say 40 Gigabytes all down the line to your computer.

When you delete that information you dont remove that 40Gb what happens is the computer tells itself it can overwrite that information. It's actually still there and can be recovered.

Question: why is it in northern states (US) it can snow several feet and daily life doesn't change, but in southern states ~1 inch of snow can shut everything down?
Answer: Infrastructure in place to deal with it, both people's stuff and city wide.

If you live in an area that regularly gets snow, you have snowblowers. You have shovels. You have winter tires, and they're already on the car. The city has huge salt reserves, plows, you name it.

if you live somewhere that *doesn't* get snow regularly... that's a lot of money to spend on shit you need once every five years, tops! So nobody has the equipment to deal with even a little bit.


**edit:** one additional problem warmer climates can have is ice. In colder climates, once the weather gets below freezing it usually **hangs out** below it for some time. So snow stays snow. But in the south, if it happens it only happens for relatively short times. If you have cold enough weather for snow, then it warms up enough to melt briefly, then dips back down again... now you have nice big sheets of *ice*. And that will ruin your day.

Question: why are American college athletes unpaid?
Answer: in a way, they are getting paid.  they get a free ride for their "work", is it fair? that's another story.

* no tuition  USD10-50k per year (depends on what school you go to)
* usually, free meals during the school year
* free housing
* my freshmen roommate gets free books from the book store too.
* some athletes get extra scholarship spending money too

Question: Reaganomics
Answer: I think when most people talked about Reaganomics, they are talking about "tickle down economics".  Basically, means wealth will tickle down from the wealthy to the poor when they're given a tax break.

Since you're 5.  Let's say, your parents are struggling to pay your allowance, because the economy is bad and their hours have been cut.  After venting to your friends, you've notice this is happening to every else too.  

So you and your friend wrote a letter to the governor, Ricky Robert Bobby Jr. III.  After reading your letter the governor decided cutting taxes for the companies and the rich to stimulate the local economy.  The governor explained, "If the people on the top have more money, they can either spend the money and stimulate the economy, or use that money to hire more people."

However, months have passed and your parents are still struggling.  So you finally asked your parents what happened?  They told you, the factory is closing down because the sales is down.  Everyone is saving their tax break cash or paying their bills instead of spending it (Just like the Bush Jr. tax rebates).  Even some rich folks/companies did spend their tax breaks money, but it is not enough.

Question: Why do tractor trailers need so many gears?
Answer: Just to allow them to tug more weight. You would need an insane amount of power to tow those trailers if you only had say 5 gears. Either you wouldn't have enough power, or your top speed would be very slow. Having more gears allow the driver to start moving the weight using the gears to keep the engine in it's optimum RPM range. Deisels don't have high rev limits like gas engine do simply because of the way they operate. They make gobs of power in the lower rpm range, so increasing a diesels rpm limit would act rally give you less power

Question: Why has it been so hard for President Obama to close Guantanamo Bay?
Answer: He is the President. He is not Congress. Most of the members of Congress do not want Guantanamo Bay closed. That is the simple answer. But this is ELI5. Lets get broader.

Guantanamo Bay is a United States base leased from the Cuban Government for, I believe, 99 years. That government is long since vanished. But the USA maintains it still has the right to the base until the lease expires. I think the present Cuban government would like it back, or has wanted it back.

What you are really referring to are the detention facilities. Since Guantanamo Bay is not actually on US soil the legal experts agree that some rules do not apply. So anyone the US wanted detained after 9/11/01 in the custody of US armed forces, (I am leaving out the CIA and its hidden prisons), is moved there. There are some bad folks there, dangerous to us.


So going back to what I said. The President cannot do everything he wants to do. The Congress must approve. They do not.

Question: How did a bunch of great actors agree to star in a movie that would obviously flop (emoji movie)?
Answer: The producers managed to solicit funding for a passing fad from people who had more money than sense.

They had a big outlay of cash and rather predictable costs for the actual production, so there was plenty of cash to pay for big name voices.

I'd be willing to bet most of the voice work was remote; they just paid whomever to record wherever they were.  With a fairly limited script, I'd be surprised if any of them spend more than a week recording.

Question: If humans were made for physical activities (not sitting for long hours), how is our body adjusting to us sitting for long hours staring at a screen
Answer: There will only be an evolutionary change if people who have spontaneous mutations that allow them to complete desk work more easily and remain healthy end up having more offspring than those who die early of sedentary heart attacks.

Question: IPv6 Subnetting
Answer: IPv6 uses a term called prefix for subnetting.

The general idea is the almost the same as IPv4.

[Here's a short primer.](_URL_0_)

Taking an example from the primer:

2001:db8::/32 - means a /32 ipv6 network prefix -  so the first 32 bits (2001:db8 in this case) will stay fixed and the other 96 bits will be the variable "host" range (though usually such a large network would be further divided - just like in IPv4).

Question: Somebody in the comments of this video said it wasn’t a heart problem. Why is this guy like he is?
Answer: In the Reddit post about it, somebody claiming to be an ER/trauma doctor said it was a condition called [flail chest](_URL_0_).

Rather than being the heart beating, the broken ribs move in  &  out as a response to air pressure from breathing.

Question: Why is there a second explosion?
Answer: So this is actually pretty cool. The second "explosion" you're seeing is called sonoluminescence, which can sometimes happen when bubbles in a liquid collapse. Basically it is a collapsing air pocket that explodes due to a violent change in pressure.

You can see as the bullet strikes the gel it creates a large air cavity along its path. When it exits the other side, the openings of the cavity collapse and trap this pocket of air inside the gel, which at this point is the same temperature and pressure as the outside air.
As the gel collapses around it, it compresses the air driving the pressure and temperature up almost instantly. If this occurs quickly enough, enough the air can reach temperatures of several thousand degrees in a fraction of a second. This causes the air molecules to emit a burst of light that we can see with high-speed cameras. Once this happens, the hot air gets pushed out of the entry and exit holes the bullet made.

Question: Are there any deductive arguments for or against gun control that are both sound and valid?
Answer: Not sure exactly what you mean by "deductive". Any argument depends upon a set of premises, and typically the differences between arguments is a difference in premises.

A simple logically sound argument against gun control is that freedom and liberty is more desirable than anything else, including personal or collective safety, and as such any gun control is bad. Now, you may not agree that freedom and liberty outweighs personal and collective safety, but that doesn't make it any less of a logically sound argument.

Question: Why can you get addicted to 1st hand smoke but not 2nd hand smoke?
Answer: Addiction to cigarettes comes in two main ways.

The first is the physical habit.  Cigarette smoking is a repetitive, comforting practice - a less athletic version of Tai Chi.  So merely smoking the cigarette is enjoyable even if you exclude the pharmacological effects.  It should be obvious that this provides no benefit except to the person who is actually smoking the cigarette.

The second is the nicotine in the cigarette.  However, the nicotine is almost entirely absorbed by the body.  You can't realistically get 'high' off of second-hand smoke - the smoke you see exhaled is particulates and other largely inert chemicals.  So there's no chemical rush from secondhand smoke to get addicted to.

Question: What's the difference between and ponzi and pyramid scheme? What are examples of companies that use these models?
Answer: In a ponzi you give a guy some money and he gives you back more money (or makes you feel like he would) by telling you a lie and saying he has a good investment but really he is just telling a bunch of people that and paying the older people with the newer people's money. 

A pyramid scheme is basically the same thing but with less direct lying. Everyone knows the older people are being paid with the older member's money but they have just been convinced in some way that that is a good idea and someday they will be the older member getting paid with the even newer people's money. 

There is a lot of overlap and something can be both at the same time or be slightly different in the particulars but generally a ponzi pays new investors old investor's money instead of making money some other way and then lies about it, pyramid scams skip the pretending there is some secret investment and just trick people into thinking it's a good business model that is sustainable.

Question: Why is CO much deadlier than CO2?
Answer: Carbon Dioxide mostly dissolves in the plasma as carbonic acid which is fine and the body is adapted for the removal of it since it is a waste product of respiration. Carbon Monoxide on the other hand associates very strongly with hemoglobin, which is supposed to be carrying diatomic Oxygen for us to use. CO actually binds more strongly than Oxygen and so this really reduces our ability to effectively get Oxygen to our bodies, meaning we slowly asphyxiate.
In answer to your follow-up question, a one atom difference in chemistry is a huge deal in many reactions, just because it's small, doesn't mean it doesn't matter.

Question: What is a tensor?
Answer: A vector is an arrangement of values in one dimension, like this:

    V = [a, b, c, d, e]

etc. 

A matrix is a vector of vectors. For example

    v1 = [ a, b, c ]
    v2 = [ d, e, f ]
    v3 = [ g, h, i ]

          v1,       a, b, c,
    M = [ v2, ] = [ d, e, f, ]
          v3,       g, h, i

You can think of a matrix as a two dimensional arrangement of values.

A tensor is a vector or matrix of matrices. You can think of it as a three or higher dimensional version of a matrix.

Question: Why do we need to write "ELI5" in front of every post when obviously that's the topic if it's in this subreddit?
Answer: Likely for those either on the front page or on /all/ who may think it's AskReddit, and then downvote them for having a bad question.

Question: What Does make a Western country be considered part of the West?
Answer: It's a largely a cultural distinction based on 'Western' values.  Nations with a free market, broad conceptions of liberty and low levels of corruption tend to be considered 'Western'.  That's why clearly non-European nations like South Korea and Japan with distinctly non-European cultural heritage are 'Western' but most of South/Central America isn't.

Question: How do sheep keep from turning into massive wool-clouds when they are in the wild and not being sheered?
Answer: Wild sheep shed their wool seasonally.   Domesticated sheep do not because humans specifically bred them not to shed

Question: Why is cell service so erratic in the mountains? Mountains don't move, so why is the connection not constantly good or bad?
Answer: For one, rock and other materials on a mountain can block signals (akin to how yiu might Not Have service underground in a tunnel due to the dirt and stone. Secondly,  On rigid mountains, it can be hard for cell companies to place anntenas, as they usually require flat services for support.

Question: Do productions really crash expensive sports cars for a single shot in films?
Answer: I doubt they buy full actual sports cars to crash. The most likely scenario is they build a replica model of the body and put it on a 'normal' car chassis.

I know a few of the cars blown up in Skyfall were relatively cheap 3D printed replicas.

Question: Why do some people mouth the words I am speaking?
Answer: People with hearing issues do this.  its one of the ways they have learned to communicate, by visually seeing your lips move a certain way and combining it with the limited audible sounds they hear they can understand what you are saying.  At that point its kind of like mouthing words while reading a book.

Source:  my best friend has hearing aids, and has for his whole life  he does this all the time.

Question: What is the deal with the unholy trinity of Kroger, CVS pharmacy and Walgreen's?
Answer: Kroger store manager here...
1) Proximity to one another allows stores to potentially steal customers away from eachother based on better service, instocks, cleanliness and speed of checkout.

2) there really arent a ton of high traffic intersections available to retailers, and it gets even lower when you factor in the size of the lots we need to build on.

3) cvs and wal-greens break even on scripts and make their money on the convenience goods and impulse products they sell. Compare their OTC prices to a Kroger, Target or Wal-Mart and it is stunning.

You will typically find us at the exits to freeways entering area zoned as residential....

Anyway,  not a full list but definitely some of the answers I have received over the years from our Real Estate department! 

I suggest you get your scripts transferred to Kroger! :)

Question: Why is ADHD treated with stimulating drugs?
Answer: ADHD is diagnosed based on symptoms of either hyperactivity and/or inattention. Stimulant drugs are so named because they "stimulate" the brain to release certain chemicals called neurotransmitters. They aren't necessarily named because they "stimulate" an individual's behavior or give somebody more energy.

By releasing these stored neurotransmitters, the symptoms of ADHD are better controlled.
Research is still being done to figure out exactly how stimulant drugs work at the cellular level to improve ADHD symptoms.

Question: if our basic human instinct to survive is so strong, why do humans willfully continue to destroy things we need to survive?
Answer: You seem to think that the brain is a perfect, logical truth-seeker.

We are the first species on Earth that can completely destroy ourselves if we're too shortsighted with our use of technology and exploitation of the environment. Before recent times, there was *no need* for any animal to be able to think long-term.
Our brains are good at immediate, simple benefits like, "I am hungry, so I hunt," or "I am under attack, so I will run," or even, "I *will* be hungry, so I'll plant these seeds."

When it comes to things like pollution and global warming, where the effects are very gradual and may not effect us much for decades, the brain is basically like, "Yeah, that sounds like a *future*-me problem," and goes on its way, whistling merrily. Hence why we destroy the environment for short-term rewards, ignoring the long-term disaster it could bring.

TL;DR, the brain isn't perfect, humans are bad at long-term thinking because before the last few hundred years, we haven't really needed it to survive.

Question: EILI5: How come English doesn't use compound nouns like other Germanic languages?
Answer: > English uses it on occasion so how come that trait of Germanic languages was never adopted by the English Language?

Maybe I'm not understanding your question properly or don't understand how German compound nouns work, or maybe you just intended to ask why doesn't English use compound nouns more frequently.  Regardless, English does have a fair number of compound nouns: basketball, washing machine, mother-in-law, and so on. 

If you're simply asking why it doesn't have more compound nouns, the answer has to do with the fact that any given language (discourse community) develops in its own unique way due to a variety of factors, and I might suggest that part of this has to do with the separation of England from other Germanic regions.  This would have been compounded by the fact that the people who could have traveled to Europe (the nobility) primarily spoke French for much of the time when English was moving from Old English to what we know today.  Consequently, there would have been less exchange of the habits of nations speaking Germanic languages and English speakers.  

edit: formatting

Question: The Drake Equation
Answer: All of the terms are probabilities that certain things will happen. That a star will have planets; that a planet will develop life; that the life will develop intelligence; and so on. None of these probabilities are zero, because we know that it has happened at least once, but we don't really know how much larger than zero they are, so we have to make educated guesses. When all multiplied together, you get the probability that a given star will have intelligent life, which you then multiply by the number of stars in the universe to determine about how many planets there might be with intelligent lifeforms.

Basically, the point is that it's quite unlikely that mankind is the only intelligent lifeform in the universe.

Question: Why is home value used to describe the U.S. economy recovery, when over-inflated home values caused an economy crash?
Answer: Home prices can be an indicator for consumer spending. If prices are high, it's usually because demand is high. Sellers want to get the most money they can, so if they know that people will buy it for a high price, they'll list it at a high price.

If lots of people are wanting to buy expensive houses, it means that lots of people have stable incomes and are willing to spend lots of money. This is a good sign.

The housing crash was due to a false belief in the above. Housing demand was huge, but it was because of bad loans, not because of stable incomes. Bad loans weren't sustainable, so when people defaulted, foreclosures and housing supply skyrocketed, demand plummeted, and so did prices. I think the belief now is that lending regulations won't let bad loans go out again.

Question: The great depression ended because we entered World War II.  Why did the wars in Afghanistand and Iraq screw our economy?
Answer: Many people have said that the scale and nature of the war and its specific influences on the economy, this is totally true. But we also must note that most of the world was in utter ruins after the war. Europe was a rubble filled charnel house, Russia was communist and isolated, China was in civil war, japan was burned to cinders, and everyone else was still the the stone age. So there was an insane amount of demand for Americas' goods and services, while very little competition. This was coupled with pent up domestic demand after years of scarcity during the depression and war-time rationing. This was why after all that sexy wartime stimulus ran out in the late forties the economy kept banging on for more than a decade.

Compared to now where America must compete with a world that is mostly on equal footing in terms of economic development, and is in many ways outstripping it (BRIC countries). Instead of rising to meet this competition America is pouring precious capital and human resources into disappointingly unproductive wars. Proving that it's always best to fight (and destroy) your economic rivals, not ideological ones.

Question: Why isn’t the temperature of a vacuum absolute zero if there is nothing to store the heat energy?
Answer: It would be if it was absolute vacuum (0 kpa). But we cannot get true 0 pressure even in laboratory conditions. Just like temperature we just try our best to get very close.

Question: Why does a full suspension mountain bike require more energy to pedal than a hard tail?
Answer: In full suspension mountain bikes there is a storage for kinetic and potential energies in the suspension device (e.g.) the spring.  When you are pedaling on flat ground you exert a force and some of this will get absorbed by the spring, unlike a hardtail which would just transmit it to the wheel and move along the ground.

Question: why the waves don't interfere?
Answer: They do actually. That's why a microwave oven might slow down your wifi or you migut have to press three times on your garage door keyfob if you are also using your cordless phone.

A short intro: radio uses frequencies, a concept meant to split data sources apart: radio stations, gsm operators. A frequency has a bandwidth (how much it can carry), an absorbtion factor and you can tradeoff speed (up to the max bandwidth for reliability). A submarine signal (ultra low freq) can be on/off and can be heard anywhere in the world, but it can only say yes or no. A 5GHz link can be heard around your house, but carries more than 10MBps. There are many more factors at play this this, mostly that rf waves bounce, reflect, and you never know how they reach you (fi: an earlier reflection can cancel the current signal). 

But some applications, like GSM get their dedicated frequencies. This is good, because  the frequencies most likely to cancel you out are those near to you (this is relative). There are also "encoding" techniques, called modulation. Usually you vary a fixed frequency by the amount of your signal: if you want to transmit a 440Hz signal on a 96MHz carrier signal, you vary the 96MHz signal in sync with the 440 one: from 96 000 000-220 to 96 000 000+220. This is called frequency modulation. This is old tech, by modern standards. Even TV broascast switched to digital, that s why you might have received a set top box, ans an old TV can no longer receive anything with just an antenna. The only globally widespread application of FM still in use is FM radio (music, news) mostly because digital replacements sucked and never caught on, while making an am receiver in case of emergencies is dead simple (coil a wire with a diode/led scrapped out of anything on a tin can).

Currently, various modulation techniques are used for digital data: bits represent specififc "notes", the carrier is varied 100 times per second. For example, see [MFSK](_URL_0_) or generic [spread spectrum](_URL_1_) techniques.

tl;dr: they do interfere, but modern transmit/receive techniques cancel most problems out.

Question: Why are there, for the most part, no "villages" in the US?
Answer: There are all kinds of small towns all over america, maybe not QUITE as smal as a few houses on a road, but there are plenty of towns with one main street, a few small businesses and not much else.

Question: What exactly happens with dissolvable stitches?
Answer: To your body, stitches are a foreign substance, and the body is programmed to destroy foreign substances. Dissolvable stitches are made from natural materials, such as processed collagen (animal intestines), silk and hair, as well as some synthetic materials that the body can break down. This allows the body to dissolve the stitches over time. Usually, by the time the stitches are dissolved, the wound is completely healed.

Pretty much, they are made of natural materials that your body breaks down until you can't see them anymore

Question: Why iTunes inconsistently "Checks its library", and why it takes so long.
Answer: Most likely it is due to improper program termination. I use iTunes (Win 7 x64 version) everyday and only rarely have encountered the "check library feature" after a crash.

You could delete the existing itunesmusiclibrary.xml in the iTunes folder in your music folder and force a rebuild.

Good luck!

Question: How does the sun provide vitamin D?
Answer: It doesn't. Ultraviolet light just breaks down chemicals you store in your skin, with the result being usable vitamin D.

Question: How does one sell their soul to Satan?
Answer: It's a simple process.  Disavow any religion, never give respect to religious procedure or show reverence towards priests, bishops, etc.

Make sure not to follow any moral teachings, unless you're just a nice person and you feel like it.

Anytime someone tries to proselytize you, openly mock them.

Gamble once a week, lie once a day, and steal once a month.

Or make it up as you go.

Question: Is it just me, or does the volume actually increase during television commercials?
Answer: it's a well known phenomenon. In most cases it *hasn't* increased in volume - most broadcasters have regualtions forbidding it - but the sound is compressed in such a way to make to make it seem louder, combined with the use of music and jingles which don't have much rise and fall in terms of volume levels

Question: What are the 3 layers of the sun's atmosphere and what do they do?
Answer: The innermost layer is called the Photosphere, and it is the layer at which light is released from the inside of the sun, therefore giving the name Photo (Light) Sphere. It is about 400 kilometers thick.

The next layer is the Chromosphere. This layer emits a red glow due to superheated hydrogen being blasted off into space from the surface of the sun. It extends above the photosphere.

The last layer is the Corona. It appears as shafts of white light. The light comes from layers of Ionized gas being shot off into space. This is the layer you see during a total solar eclipse. These gases are what cause the Solar Wind.

Question: Why do pet cats want you to watch them eat?
Answer: When cats are eating, they lose their ability to hear. This makes them vulnerable to predators. You are their "look out."

Question: EL5: Directions in 3-D space
Answer: You're question assumes the sci-fi style of spaceship that travels anywhere in space without worrying about gravity from the solar system it's in. 

In this case, Star Trek divided the galaxy into quadrants and used the center of the galaxy as a (0,0,0) origin for this kind of system. 

In real life, however, gravity has a huge impact on how you travel through a solar system. When you travel from Earth to Mars, you don't have the luxury of flying in a straight line to where Mars is going to be. You have to speed up on your original orbit around the sun to increase the size of your orbit to sync up with the orbit of Mars. But you have to time this orbit to coincide with you getting into that orbit at the same time that Mars will be there, otherwise you will just remain a certain distance ahead/behind Mars on its orbit. This is why there are "launch windows" where if you don't launch for Mars during that time, you will miss the planet and only end up in the same orbit.

So in real life, it is thought of in a sort of spherical coordinates, with the central body at the origin (in this case the Sun), an angle describing how far around your orbit you are from a starting point (in orbital mechanics this is called the "true anomaly"), and the angle of your inclination (how far from being horizontal with the equator of the central body).

Unfortunately, orbits are not completely circular, so the coordinates are not exactly spherical. Because of this, you also need to define the eccentricity of your orbit (how non-circular it is) and the largest radius of this resulting ellipse (this is called the semi-major axis). Depending on your physics/math background you can find out the equations that define these things here:
_URL_0_

Now you understand why sci-fi uses ships that have propulsion so powerful it ignores gravity and travels in straight lines, eh? Way less complicated.

Question: If the average human hearing is 20Hz to 20KHz, why do they sell headphones with higher ranges, like 30KHz?
Answer: To get better results at 20KHz. The rules on this subreddit are forcing me to elaborate, but this is the simplest answer. Speakers with a 'response' from 20Hz to 20kHz cannot have a nice linear response (same output power for same input level, which is what you want for accurate reproduction of sound) across that range of frequencies, and then immediately drop to no output at all at 19Hz and 20,001Hz. On headphones marked as 20Hz-30KHz the audible range from 20Hz-20kHz can be made lovely and linear, with increasingly poor response between 16Hz-20Hz and 20kHz-31kHz, and worse response still outside that range.

Question: if you were a multi billionaire, say you had 100 billion dollars. And you liquidated all your assets into cash. Then you burned all that cash. What would happen to the economy?
Answer: The government would reprint the cash to keep the dollar value steady. 

Congratulations, you've just given $100b to the government!

Question: What makes some robots move more quickly than others? What are usually the limiting factors?
Answer: The faster you want something to move, the more energy you have to give it, and that means more power. 

Basic physics lesson: 

Ek = 1/2mv^2 

Where Ek is kinetic energy, the energy of motion, me is mass and v is velocity. 

Velocity is distance/time. 

P = E/t

Where P is power, E is energy and t is time. 

If you want something to move faster, v increases. That means the object moves the same distance in less time. 

Based on these equations you can see that because V goes up, so too does E and t gets smaller so P will also increase. 

If you want a low power device, like say a mobile robot because batteries are big, heavy (increasing mass also increases power consumption in anything that moved) and expensive, it makes sense to make the device slower.

Question: Is light a particle or a wave?
Answer: Neither.

Both just happen to be things we are familiar with that approximate the behavior of light in certain situations. Light is exactly what the equations that govern it say it is. That is independent of how you choose to conceive of it in your head, and the true nature is hard (if not impossible) to imagine.

A lot of physicist like to use the 'wave packet' as a way to think about it but of course that's not exactly right either. 

As a side note, according to special relativity, from the perspective of light, every photon exists for zero time (it is absorbed the exact instant it is emitted), so you can almost imagine the universe as a place where charges oscillate and that immediately causes oscillations in other charges everywhere else in the universe.

Question: What factors are involved with the decrease in the value of the Canadian dollar?
Answer: A very big one is the current drop in oil prices

Question: Why is hotel internet/cell service always so terrible.
Answer: Lots of people concentrated in a small area all trying to use the same resources at the same time. Want fast hotel internet? Try it at 10 am on a weekday (if there are no conferences going on). Some hotels also now cap basic service and want you to pay for faster access. So they have "free" internet but it's only about 2-3mb/s. 

Ditto for cell phones. A few hundred people in your hotel all trying to use the same cell sites to get better internet than the shitty hotel wifi.

Question: How to meditate
Answer: Simple answer: Sit in place, breathe regularly, and think of nothing. 

Meditation can be done for different objectives. If you want to explore one topic of thought, and that is your objective, do so. Just remember to keep your mind on track, don't punish yourself for deviation, and to simply allow errant thoughts to conclude before bringing yourself back to the subject at hand. 

Meditation for relaxation and therapeutic / spiritual reasons is often the meditation of no-thought. Attempt to release all thoughts from your mind, sit in a seated posture with a straight but relaxed back, ideally cross-legged with your butt raised in elevation a few inches above your legs. Again, if you receive errant thoughts, do not punish yourself or force them away - allow them to conclude, and return to no-thought. 

Allow yourself to focus on your heartbeat, the sounds of the world around you, the feeling the world places upon your skin, the weight of gravity, and the information your senses provide in this now-moment. Be in the now, not the future or the past - if you find yourself delving into either, allow it to conclude, and return to the now. 

Meditative breathing can be thought of as a four-step process - the breath in, the top of the breath, the breath out, the bottom of the breath - and repeat. Focus on each in turn, slowly and gradually. Do not necessarily attempt to fill your lungs to capacity - breathe in as much as is comfortable (think 3/4 capacity, if you need an absolute metric), allow the breath to linger, breathe out as much as is comfortable, then allow the no-breath to linger. 

Meditation can best be learned with practice and persistence. If you do not get it immediately (and you will not), do not give up or punish yourself. It is a skill, like anything else, and you certainly wouldn't give up on riding a bike or hate yourself for failing it after just one scraped knee.

Question: Why does eating ice cream leave a weird taste in your mouth that doesn't go away?
Answer: Maybe you're just not eating the right ice cream.  Twice in recent months I've had ice cream that was awful.  It felt like my tongue was being coated in some kind of greasy sludge and left a bad taste.  I'm sticking to quality brands with simple natural ingredients from now on.

Question: Why are reheated fries always so much worse than fries you just purchased from a restaurant/fast food place?
Answer: When frying, you quickly boil away the water on the outside of whatever you fry by dropping it in hot oil and dehydrate the exterior of it. Normally, there's something starchy there that then forms a barrier for the inside of your food (in the case of french fries, the potato itself), which then retains moisture and cooks by steaming. As the steam hit the outside of the food, it is again boiled away by the oil. This is why french fries have that crisp outer shell around a moist potato interior.

If you reheat fries in a microwave, you will once again steam the inside of it by heating that water up, but you no longer have a protective layer of oil on the outside to boil away the water and keep the outside of it dehydrated. Instead, that crust you built up before can just absorb the water.

Baking or heating up your fries in a frying pan (even without oil) will do a much better job of keeping the outside crisp when reheating.

Question: Red, Green and Blue make all the colors for TVs/monitors... Why not Red, Yellow and Blue?
Answer: Monitors emit light, so they use *additive* colour mixing. Paints absorb light, so they use *subtractive* colour mixing. The primary colours of each process are directly opposed.  
You have red, green and blue in additive colour mixing because those are the peak wavelengths of the three kinds of cone cell in the typical human eye. You can mimic the mixture of cone cells activated by any visible wavelength by mixing different amounts of light at each of those peak wavelengths.  
Then you have the subtractive primaries that each remove one of the additive primaries from white light. Cyan subtracts red, magenta subtracts green and yellow subtracts blue.

Question: how flavors work.
Answer: The 5 flavor sections of the tongue is a myth.

Question: Why is it hard to emulate old game systems with low-specs on computers with much more powerful specs?
Answer: So emulation requires a LOT of power. Imagine that your PS2 is French. The games are French. Your PC only speaks English. So to try and read those French games, it needs to translate the French to English. The emulator program is the French to English dictionary. BUT, unless your PC is powerful enough, it can't translate fast enough to make the game work. It needs to flip through the pages to find each word in order to do the translations.

Question: How does your body get more resistant to a sickness the more times you have it?
Answer: So, we fight infections with our immune system, and the immune system mainly fights bacteria, viruses, or multicellular parasites. There are two main branches of our immune system, those being the "passive" and "adaptive" immune systems. 

The passive immune system consists of physical barriers such as your skin, as well as chemical barriers such as a low pH (acidic) or high salt concentrations such as bile produced in the liver. Other components of the innate immune system are proteins and immune cells. 

The proteins, think of them as little organic machines, are called the "complement" system. These proteins circulate in the blood and the surrounding body tissue. These proteins have a few functions.
1. They "opsonise" the pathogen, which is basically making them sticky so your defense cells can attach and engulf the pathogens.
2. Once activated, they attract more immune cells and trigger an inflammatory response. Ever notice that a cut or scrape gets a little swollen and red?
3. They form a Membrane Attack Complex (MAC) that basically punches holes in the bacterial membrane.

The cells of the innate immune system serve various roles.
1.Neutrophils and Macrophages are phagocytic cells that basically eat the bacteria, digest it, and in the case of macrophages, present chewed up bits of the bacteria to the adaptive immune system.
2.Basophils and Mast Cells contain many small granules (little packages) that once they encounter a pathogen (bacteria) get released into the tissue. These granules have many effects, such as attracting more immune cells, increasing the blood flow to the area, and making the blood vessels "leaky" allowing blood components into the tissue, again causing swelling. 
3.Eosinophils are white blood cells that work best against larger, multicellular parasite, and have a similar function to the Basophils and Mast Cells.

Your innate immune response is always active and never really changes its actions. 
Now for the question at hand, how do we get better at fighting certain infections? 

You're adaptive immune system has two major cells called B and T lymphocytes. 

B cells produce antibodies and T cells usually activate or stimulate other immune cells.

B lymphocytes gather in lymph nodes. The lymphatic system being almost like a circulatory system for water. So, when your innate immune system encounters a pathogen, the macrophages and "dendritic" cells gobble up, digest, and then express parts of the bacteria/pathogen/whatever on their cell surface. As they are doing this, they move from the site of infection to the nearest lymph node. 
There they encounter The B cells. These B cells can undergo a rapid mutation of their components allowing them to produce thousands of variations in their antibodies. When a B cell produces one of these new antibodies, it shows up on the B cell surface, and if it can attach to the pathogen components being presented by the macrophage/dendritic cell that B cell begins to multiply. The new B cells that are produced carry the genetic information to produce an antibody that sticks to that specific pathogenic component. Then they migrate out of the lymph nodes, towards the infection, and then do some Pokémon style evolution into their final form, that being a "Plasma Cell". These guys basically camp out, producing and releasing these antibodies. These antibodies stick to the pathogen, making it easier for phagocytic cells to attach to and destroy them.

Now, every type of bacteria has a different structure, such as sugars or fats or proteins expressed on their surface, so the B cell antibodies that stick to one won't necessarily stick to another. In fact the antibodies being produced against a certain organism may not really attach that well. Hence the more exposure you get to a pathogen, the more time you have to develop an effective antibody against that particular organism. 

tl;dr

B cells produce antibodies specific to one type of organism. The more exposure they have to that organism, the more effective antibody they can produce. Antibodies are used by other immune system cells as little hand holds so they can grab them and eat them easier.

Question: why does it hurt so much when we get hit in the nuts?
Answer: Because they're important. They have a lot of nerves to tell you "don't break these". 

Any animal that didn't have this response was at risk to having them damaged, and an animal with damaged testicles is less able to pass on thier genes.

Question: Why is the Wow! signal significant?
Answer: Basically:

* It's way, way bigger than background, which indicates that it's not a random fluctuation. It's actually so powerful that it would require a source about 1000 times more powerful than any transmitter on earth. Of course, stars and galaxies that put out radio signals are very, very powerful.
* It's narrowband, which means that it is in a small range of frequencies, which is similar to how radio works. But it's also similar to how a lot of natural things work.
* Its frequency is very close to that emitted by hydrogen changing energy state. Some people looking for extraterrestrials think that this is important because, since hydrogen is so abundant and important in astronomy, civilizations that have radio telescopes would probably monitor that frequency, so they may think to transmit on it too.
* It was continuous over the time that it was observed, which means it wasn't a pulse like a pulsar would emit, or changing in power like a supernova might emit.
* It has never been seen again, which adds mystery, though seems odd for a purposeful transmission.

Question: Why aren't land speed records set by huge vehicles?
Answer: >  So I'm wondering why land speed records aren't set by huge rockets tipped sideways on wheels.

Their are different categories for the different records, all with their own sets of rules and regulations. There is a governing body, so you can't just "build whatever you want".

 >  And in regards of Piston powered cars what is preventing me from making a 600v engine the size of a house and driving it really fast?

Mainly the weight of it.

Question: What does it mean to say "my music album is done, except I just need to mix it"?
Answer: This means the recording phase is done. Generally, the instruments/vocals that make up a song and album are recorded individually. Mixing is putting these together to make a song, though mastering and other things come after mixing. So an album is a long way from done when recording is complete.

Question: What do they mean by 'corridors' when talking of the MH370 going missing?
Answer: I believe the ping delay allows them to have a basic understanding of how far the aircraft is away from the satellite, they know exactly where the satellite was. Not horribly dissimilar to how GPS works, only with one instead of three or four satellites.

The other information they have (fuel, speed, last known, radar, already searched locations...) I believe let's then rule out the middle portion leaving you with two corridors.

Question: Why does it seem normal and natural for older siblings to pick on their younger siblings when the parents aren't around? (Ages 1-8)
Answer: As the eldest sibling it is our duty to assert our dominance of course. We are unofficially charged with keeping the baby siblings in line when our adults aren't around.

Question: why can Tiger/Lion hyrbids exist and yet no hybrid of a Crocodile/Alligator exist?
Answer: Tiger is Panthera tigris, Lion is Panthera leo, and both members of the same genus, Panthera. Being from the same genus means that it's relatively likely they can interbreed (there are lots of technicalities, as the specifics is a lot more complicated)..

The American Alligator is Alligator mississippiensis, the American Crocodile is Crocodylus acutus, they are not in the same genus, and are not likely to breed. They only share the same order, [Crocodilian](_URL_4_). To put it in perspective, we share the same order Primate with lemurs. A [Chinese Alligator](_URL_0_) shares it's genus with the American alligator, maybe a cross of them is possible, but you would still call it an alligator. Similarly the [Crocodylus rhombifer](_URL_2_) and [Crocodylus acutus](_URL_3_) share the same genus, and [they do cross breed](_URL_1_)

Question: Can I develop a visible jawbone through excercise or is it just based on genes during childbirth?
Answer: Nothing is determined "during birth" your genetics are set at conception. That being said, a "strong jaw" is usually tied to testosterone levels during the developing years. Increasing testosterone levels during adulthood may help to define the jaw line slightly, giving a more "masculine" look, but It's not going to create a square jaw.

Question: China's economy is slowing down, producing factories close. Annual growth was last quarter measured at 6,8%. If economie grows, why are factories closing down?
Answer: My understanding is that many of the factories took on debt to expand to meet growth demands. The debt accounted for continued growth at extremely high rates. Because the economy has slowed, they cannot make the debt payments that they had predicted based on the previous growth rate.

In other words if my business doubled every few years for the last 10 years,  &  I went to the bank requesting a loan for a million dollars with the expectation that the business is going to double again in another two years, the bank would likely give me alone. However if my growth stops I won't be able to make that million dollar payment and will have to declare bankruptcy.

That is how much most all businesses go bankrupt by the way. If they grow slowly and have no debt then they would likely be fine at the current growth rate.

Question: Why is Disney allowed to merge with all of these other big companies, most recently 21st Century, and not suffer from monopoly laws?
Answer: Monopolization is, generally speaking, when you control all (or a substantial portion) of a _market_ or _industry_.  Standard Oil was a monopoly because they controlled almost all of the oil industry; Microsoft was thought to be a monopoly because they controled 90% of the PC OS market.

Disney, even as big as they may be, controls only a tiny fraction of the entertainment industry.  There are many, many other companies producing entertainment, so they are not where near the level of market share you'd need to think of them as a monopoly.

Question: Marshmellow or Marshmallow?
Answer: This isn't really an ELI5 question, but it's marshmallow.

Modern marshmallows are based on a medicine called marshmallow, named for the plant it was created from [The common marsh-mallow](_URL_0_)

Question: Why is heat red?
Answer: The reason you're imagining heat as red in your mind is probably because you associate it with the color of fire or lava or superheated metal.

The quality of having high thermal energy doesnt really have a color though.

Question: Who are the people commenting on news sites with extremist views and upvoting them?
Answer: Assholes who are well liked by other assholes. Part of the problem is a sampling bias called response bias. The type of people who are most likely to comment are the ones who hold the strongest opinions. Those opinions are unusually extreme, and the only people who respond to them are people who hold equally extreme views. This doesn't hold true for absolutely everyone, but it does skew what you see.

Question: As we grow, does our internal dialogue​ develop before we can speak, or do they develop at the same time?
Answer: Internal dialogue only develops as you learn a language. Prior to that, your only means of communication or perception is through your senses. As babies develop, these skills develop as well, such as preferential looking for example. There are a few tests that are done to determine if a baby can determine the differences between different stimuli, if they prefer different stimuli, and if they are able to differentiate between themselves and their reflection. These things are only observable, we can only determine that babies have developed these levels of perception through their behaviour which is conveyed through looking, touching etc. So, babies  cannot use inner dialogue until they learn language; however, they have other means to perceive and understand the world around them.

Question: How does the spray the ref uses during the world cup work?
Answer: I thought they used shaving cream

EDIT: apparently this is wrong... they use a shaving cream-like substance, from what I can gather it's a kind of foam where all the foam bubbles pop quickly (about 90 seconds) after being sprayed, thus leaving no visible mark.

Question: Why is it that my iPhone 5s can film at 120 Fps, while my 5D cain only film at 60?
Answer: Your iPhone is 8MP, your 5D(mkIII) is 22.1MP. Capturing  < 60FPS at that resolution is not only taxing for the cameras processor but also for the storage medium, most cameras actually go down to 3-4MP when doing '120FPS' to achieve this. it is also needless to say that the files that come from the 5D's sensor are MUCH richer in information than that of the iPhone.

Question: How is this legal
Answer: They might have paid Paramount a licensing fee to use the characters and stuff. When they say that they aren't affiliated with Paramount, all it means is that Paramount didn't make the book.

If I really liked your username and wanted to use it in a book I'm writing, I might give you five bucks so that you don't sue me. You're still not affiliated with the project, but you've agreed not to sue me over it.

Question: - why your breath smells bad in the morning
Answer: Hours of sleeping give the bacteria in your mouth plenty of time to reproduce. This is what causes your breath to smell nasty when you wake up.

Question: What is Pokemon Go?
Answer: You're basically using your phone to turn the world in pokemon. Using your camera and internal sensors, you can find pokemon and capture them. Different parts of the world will have different pokemon

Question: Why do we hate SimCity?
Answer: _URL_0_

They're forcing you to always be logged in to their server to play a SINGLE PLAYER game.  Annnnnnd, icing on the cake, the servers have been down since launch, which means no one can play it.  Its a direct blow to the face, and a big-ass I TOLD YOU SO.  DRM is Digital Rights Management, a way for them to copy-protect their game.  Other forms of DRM include having to put in a CD key when you first install a game, for example.  Its a way so that you can't just install the game, and give it to your buddy to install too.

They're selling you a crippled game (limited city size... in a city-building game... that you reach the city size in under an hour? OH, don't worry, a future Download (that will cost $20) will unlock bigger cities for you!)....  Stuff like that is really pissing people off.

Question: Why is the skin on your face more sensitive than skin on other parts of your body?
Answer: There is a part of the brain known as the sensory cortex. This part of the brain deciphers sensation, so any time you are touched or touching something, the sensory cortex is what gives you this information. The thing is, the sensory cortex doesn't spend its resources equally across the body. There are some parts of the body that it pays attention to more and some parts it pays attention to less. 

Take a look at a [homunculus](_URL_0_). This is a representation of how the sensory cortex divides its resources across different parts of the body. In the homonculus, the larger the part of the body, the stronger the sensation in that area. You can see that the hands and face are absolutely massive meaning the brain pays a lot of attention to those parts of the body. In reality, your hands are the most sensitive part of your body because it picks up more information. Your face is a close 2nd.

Question: How is all motion relative? Is there an "absolute" motion? What about motion relative to the entire universe?
Answer: Motion is relative because in relation to different frames of reference, things can appear to be going faster, slower, etc.

So, for example, I am sitting at my computer going 0 mph.  But, if you look at the big picture, I have the velocity of the Earth's rotational spin, as well as its speed of orbit.

If you are driving 70mph and someone is driving 69 mph, and you try to pass them, it is like they are going still, and you are going 1 mph.  You will pass slowly.  But to a nearby observer, you guys are going 70mph / 69mph which is relatively fast (in relation to the observer).

Because there is no singular point of the universe in which we could call it 'point zero' (all movement revolves around or is connected with this point) and the observable universe is always moving, we must use reference frames to talk about velocity because without reference, saying 20mph is as useless as telling you the party is located at the big blue house - You need more context.

Question: Why is it when you way oversleep, you get a headache?
Answer: You might be dehydrated. The longer you sleep, the longer you're going without water. Also, you might be over sleeping because you're sick.

Question: Why can't we generate fake voices as well as we can generate realistic looking CGI?
Answer: The benefit of CGI is that you can use it to create scenes that you couldn't easily produce with traditional methods, but it still takes artists a lot of work to do it. Hypothetically, I guess it is possible to engineer a realistic-sounding voice, but there's no point in doing so when having a voice actor is just as good, if not better, likely cheaper, and definitely easier.

Question: When people are sad, why do they want to listen to sad music?
Answer: It's like when someone tries to cheer you up when you're sad versus someone telling you how they've been there and know how you feel so you don't feel alone in your troubles, either one can produce positive feelings. It's basically a cathartic treatment, a release to get rid of the sadness you have or take your mind off of it. Where that fine line between releasing the sadness and possibly perpetuating it ends depends on the song, the person, repetition and many other factors. 

Basically funny clowns don't always work, sometimes it takes a sad clown to make a sad person happy. 

Source: I think about music and emotions a lot.

Question: Why does rocking back and forth and/or being in a tight enclosed space make an anxious person calmer?
Answer: Its close to floating in a mothers womb, it recalls the most basic memories when you had absolutely no concerns at all, and didn't have to do anything, even eat or drink, because it was all done for you. The tight space is the constriction of the womb, the rocking simulates the floating in embryonic fluid.

Question: Why Prime Minister of Malaysia is so invulnerable ?
Answer: 1. The National Party (Barisan National) has been the ruling party for over 50 years. The major component parties UMNO, MCA, and MIC each cater towards the major ethnic groups in the country, and are still pretty united.

2. The Opposition parties on the other hand are not as tight-knit, particularly because one of the most influential party (PAS) wanted to implement Syariah Law while the others are adamant not to.

3. The current PM is very well connected. His father was Malaysia's second PM, and his uncle was Malaysia's third PM. He's been in politics since 1976 and has been minister for various departments including Culture, Youth and Sports, Defence, Education, and is currently the Minister of Finance in addition to being Prime Minister.

4. The three branches of the government are the Legislative (writes laws), Executive (signs/vetoes laws), and Judicial (decide if laws are constitutional). While all three branches were supposed to be independent of each other, Mahathir as the 4th PM passed a Constitutional amendment that says that the High Courts are only allowed to perform judiciary review (basically to determine if the other governmental branches are overstepping their bounds) only with permission from the Parliament. 

5. Last general election, despite the ruling party losing the popular vote, still managed to retain a majority of the seats in the Parliament. 

6. The Attorney-General is the highest ranking public prosecutor in the country. The previous AG 

 >  tenure ended in 2015 when the Chief Secretary to the Government announced he had stepped down due to health reasons. The announcement was abrupt, and Patail himself was apparently unaware of the decision to have him removed from his post. Prior to this, he was head of a multi-agency taskforce investigating claims of misappropriation of funds allegedly involving prime minister Najib Razak.

while the current AG was hastily appointed by the prime minister. His history includes 

 >  led a Court of Appeal panel that decided in a unanimous ruling to acquit former police commandos Sirul Azhar Umar and Azilah Hadri of the high-profile 2006 murder of Mongolian Altantuya Shaariibuu. Both have since been convicted of murder. - See more at: _URL_1_

as well as 

 >  is known to have been an active Umno member and had previously held the Kelantan Umno treasurer post before taking office. - See more at: _URL_1_

and is recently [appointed to the board of directors for the  Malaysian hajj pilgrims fund board](_URL_0_). He declared the PM to be clear of any wrongdoing pretty much unilaterally and has refused to provide any details and explanation so far.

So: what can be done about the PM?

Vote him out of power? Good luck passing it through the Parliament, since the ruling party has a majority and the opposition lacks unity and strong leaders.

Public protests? Did that too, Bersih 4.0. Nothing came out of it except forming a new coalition of opposition parties.

The Judiciary is hamstrung and powerless. The AG is in the PM's pockets. Currently Mahathir is taking the battle to the civil court and suing Najib for corruption.

Appeal to the King (Yang di Pertuan Agong)? The royalty have very little real power. At most they can issue strongly worded statements.

Question: Do advertisers use annoying sounds in commercials -- like people crunching, for example -- on purpose? Wouldn't this make people hate the product, like it does with me?
Answer: Advertisers are not trying to annoy you, but they are trying to get you to experience their product.  If they are selling a crunchy cereal, for example, you can't taste it directly when you see it on the television or hear about it on the radio.  But by playing a crunching sound effect, advertisers can show your brain that their product is crunchy.  And hearing that crunch, like when you would eat it, for most people will create a whole bunch of related thoughts and feelings in their brains.  Your brain recalls the other things that happen when you make that crunching noise while you are eating it.  And seeing pictures of the food and hearing the crunch together can be enough to make people actually salivate, preparing their bodies to immediately consume that product.

And this is what advertisers want.  They want you to remember what eating something crunchy is like, and they want you to get hungry while seeing their product or hearing them talk about it.

Some commercials get annoying because advertisers have also figured out that sounds and colors that are louder and more vivid than they are in real life can evoke stronger reactions from people.  In general, our brains react more to stronger stimulation.  But when a stimulus is too loud or too bright, it passes a certain threshold where we no longer associate it with eating.  Then it just sounds out of place, fake, and annoying.

Question: Is microwaving food bad for you in any way?
Answer: The most damage you could do is nuke it so hard that it burns your hands or mouth. 

You can't get cancer from it, and you're extremely unlikely to burn yourself by standing in front of it.

Question: Why is it that you never think anything is weird when you are dreaming, it's only when you wake up you realise how strange things actually were?
Answer: To be brief, during a dream it's basically your brain taking a rest. So like a computer it shuts off all non-essential functions, and one of them is called the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. This part of the brain controls things such as memory and judgement. Thus, without this part of the brain "on" you lose the ability to a) remember the real world and b) judge that the dream you're in is weird.    
On top of that, a dream is only weird because it doesn't usually follow the same laws of science that you're used to in reality. So after waking up it might be weird, but during the dream without the ability to recall the "true" laws of science, you don't think it's weird.

Question: What did de Blasio do, that is making NYC cops turn on him?
Answer: Part of it has to do with what he told a reporter during a one on one interview.  DeBlasio told this reporter that he has been teaching his son Dante, who is bi-racial to be careful around police officers. This led people to think that he is perpetuating the image of the white, racist police officer via the media.

Question: Being a millennial who has been raised around screens of all types; how -realistically- have I been affected?
Answer: By screens? As in LCD displays?

As a millennial you are probably safe.

Us old people who were raised around CRT TVs and displays have more to worry about.

LCD displays are pretty safe as far as radition and other harmful effects are concerned.

Question: how does Pi never repeat when there are only ten different numbers (0,1,2,3 etc.)?
Answer: It's not that you can't find repeating sequences, it's that any such sequence is guaranteed to end, and not match the digits that came before.  So there is no sequence of digits in there that just repeats forever.

Question: Why is pink a girlish colour? When and how did this association start?
Answer: Pink was a boys colour back in the 18th/19th century, and blue for girls. It's entirely a fashion thing, led by advertising and the media.

Question: Why does alcohol withdrawal give you such vivid, and sometimes very scary, dreams?
Answer: Alcohol suppresses REM stage sleep (the period when you dream), which your brain adjusts for as you become dependent. Once the alcohol is removed from the equation, your brain still tries to compensate for REM sleep being suppressed, leading to increased REM activity and vivid dreams.

Question: Why are JPEG files still used today when internet speeds have increased which would allow for less compression to be needed?
Answer: It is desirable to have compression no matter how much speed you have, since this allows more photos to be sent in less time and stored in less space forever.

A popular website may send out the same photo millions of times. It adds up for them.

The amount of compression in a JPEG is adjustable, so it doesn't have to be "excessively" compressed.

Question: Where do metal sparks come from?
Answer: They are closer to the equivalent of sawdust for wood.  They glow due to the heat from the friction of sawing the metal.

Question: Are D-Waves actually quantum computers?
Answer: In one sense, yes. In the most common sense, no. 

The most famous proposed quantum algorithms, like Shor's algorithm (which would break most of today's encryption), run on a universal quantum computer.

D-Wave is not a universal quantum computer, and instead performs an operation known as quantum annealing. In order for the D-Wave to solve a problem, the problem must be formulated in such a way that it can be solved using quantum annealing. Not all problems can be formulated like that. But for problems that can, it has benefits over regular simulated annealing, like speed.

Question: Why is there an anti-african movement in Isreal right now?
Answer: Much like the situation involving Mexicans coming into the US, Israel is having a tense situation with people coming into the country undocumented from Africa.  The Africans are coming in part because they can get jobs and be paid much more than they would in other places.  Israel has taken some measures like building a border fence.  They also have a policy where illegal immigrants can be kept in a holding facility while arrangements are made to send these people back to their countries of origin.  There are a whole bunch of issues associated with this, like determining which immigrants qualify as refugees.

Some, but not all, Israelis are particularly unhappy with the behavior of the African immigrants because their behavior is viewed as being responsible for a variety of costs, including native Israelis losing their jobs.  When losing one's job is combined with the fact that these immigrants are of a different race than most Israelis, that causes racial tension.

Question: Why is the skin of many penises darker than the skin of the surrounding area?
Answer: Same reason vaginal areas are darker than surrounding skin. Not only is there increased blood flow in the region, but also greater levels of melanin, which causes dark skin tone. The more melanin, the better one's skin can hold out against the sun and damage. 

Considering that human males have their first penis on the exterior of the body and would naturally walk without clothing, it's important that that sensitive area be able to avoid damage by the sun. It wouldn't be fun to have a sunburned cock

Question: Why Americans and Brits have different accents.
Answer: Accents are a product of who you hang out with, kind of like your hobbies. If 7 out of 10 of your friends like baseball, there is a very high chance that you will also like baseball, or at least know some baseball terms.

Same with accents. Even though Americans and Britons speak the same overall language, we have our own local varieties in how we speak. And those small variations get larger over time since we keep hanging out with ourselves.

As time goes on, our accents will get more and more distinct (ignoring the effect of globalization/traveling to different countries frequently).

Question: Why is ok to say "your people" but not "you people?
Answer: They are similar, but with vastly different meanings and connotations. 

"your people" means "the people (ie nation) to which you belong". It is often used politely and respectfully. 

"you people" on the other hand is almost always always followed by a generalization or stereotype. You're no longer talking about the group that the listener is a part of, you're talking about the listener as a part of everyone else in the group in a negative light.

Question: How did time become universal?
Answer: Well there are different [calendars](_URL_0_) that some countries use. Most countries do agree on the Gregorian calendar though and use the others in addition to it.   

There is an organization called the [International Organization for Standardization](_URL_2_) though that helped set the [standard time intervals and week lengths etc for countries.](_URL_1_) They also set the standard for many other things such as: dvd/cd's, light sensitivity for cameras, language codes, country codes, types of connectors and [many more things](_URL_3_) from machinery to networking equipment and computer coding.

Question: what is actually taking place in your ear when you are experiencing tinnitus? (Ringing in your ears)
Answer: There are a variety of causes. One of the easiest to understand comes from damage from things like loud sounds. Your ear has a bunch of tiny hair cells in it. These hair cells each vibrate to particular frequencies or pitches. When one of these (or an associated receptor) is damaged it can't create a pitch sensation properly anymore. One thing that can happen is that your brain is confused into thinking the hair cell is "on" when it's not -- you hear an illusory pitch. Since particular hair cells correspond to a focused pitch this illusory sound is similarly focused.

You can also have more internal/neural issues where the signal gets screwed with (with the same "always-on" result). Many conditions and medications can do his. And finally some people actually have extra noises being generated in their ears (for example by muscle spasms).

Question: Why can't Koko the gorilla just teach other gorillas sign language?
Answer: Koko did teach a friend sign language. Koko's gorilla friend Michael,

_URL_0_

Question: Why people say break a leg before a performance?
Answer: Please take some time googling before you submit here.  Thanks.

Question: How is it physically possible for one-way mirrors to be seethrough from one side but a mirror from the other side?
Answer: They are only partially reflective. If you look at a standard window, you can see through but you can also see a bit of reflection in them, especially if trying to peer into a dark room from a sunny outdoor location. One-way mirrors are closer to reflective windows than true mirrors, and they require the observation room to be dark and the observed room to be well-lit. This makes it so very little light shines out from the observation room into the better lit observed room while also keeping reflections from inside the room minimal. Meanwhile, the observed room has much more light both reflected back into the room itself and shining into the observation room. If you were to turn up the lighting in the observation room and/or dim the lights in the observed room so they are at about the same brightness, it would become more like a standard window. And if you completely reversed the lighting, the mirror effect would flip.

Question: How music synthesizers work? And the difference between an "analog" synthesizer and a "digital" synthesizer?
Answer: There are different ways of making a synth. (Have you checked out the Google home page today, BTW?) You can either try to build the sound up from scratch, or use samples of real instruments.  I'll address the first method.  
  
A musical pitch is comprised of a fundamental frequency and some number of harmonics, or overtones. The harmonics are some whole number multiple of the fundamental frequency. By combining a fundamental with selected harmonics, you can get sounds with different timbres.  
 
In nature, the fundamental and harmonics tend to be like sine waves. But you can provide different wave shapes (sawtooth, square, etc.). Each of those actually is like a sine wave with a predefined set of harmonics, but it is easier to generate a rich sound with lots of different harmonics if you use them.  
  
Besides doing those things to effect the timbre, you can vary things like the attack and decay - how quickly the sound reaches maximum volume after the key is pressed, and how quickly it fades out.  Similarly, you can make the overall volume (amplitude) of the sound non-constant while the note is playing - making "the envelope" rise and fall either slowly or rapidly vs. time, and with different "shapes" to how you are doing so.  
  
In the original analog synths, most of these effects were accomplished using Voltage Controlled Oscillators (VCOs). One VCO could generate the fundamental, others the harmonics, others to control the attack and decay, and others to control the modulation of the envelope. Each of these could usually generate sine, square, sawtooth, and triangle waves, and their oscillation frequency was controlled by their voltage input. By combining them in various ways, cool sounds were created. In addition, filters could be applied at various stages to add more control to the harmonics that could go through to the next stage. 
  
A digital synth doesn't need a VCO  or hardware filter to do those things. By doing rapid math, the same kinds of effects could be numerically generated in software, plus more. Then the final output "number" is run through a Digital to Analog converter (DAC) and sent to an amplifier and then to the synth output.

Question: why do so many people film cellphone videos in portrait mode?
Answer: Because that's how you hold a phone when doing most other things.  It doesn't occur to them or they don't care.  It's easier to hold a phone one handed especially with how huge phones are these days.

Question: Why does diarrhea come so quickly when food takes hours for the stomach to digest and days to pass through the intestines?
Answer: So your bowels are like a long train track and your food is like a set of cars on the track. Transit time between Point A, your mouth, and Point B, the chute, is a bit flexible but normally operates on a regularly scheduled basis.

When you eat, you put cars on the track and send them to Point B. As these cars go to Point B, they lose passengers (nutrients) at various points in the thin tunnel portion (small intestine). The journey isnt complete and the journey has already altered the shape of the car pretty significantly giving a rusty color. Once in the larger portion of the tunnel, the cars are checked for stray passengers and are hosed down a bit so that transition out of Point B isn't so bad. Sometimes, the train cars park juuust outside the gates of Point B so they can exit at the best time for the operator (toilet).

Now, all of this goes fucking nuts when you load a bad set of train cars at Point A. The track sensors located everywhere along the track, detect this alien set of cars and sends a distress call to the Supervisor (your brain). The Supervisor wants to handle the situation without having to phone the Manager (your consciousness) about the craziness on the tracks and also wants to make sure you never know it was on the tracks. It has to make a choice now: send it back to Point A violently and somewhat painfully risking tearing the tracks, or send it to Point B as fast as fuck? Depending on where it's located on the track, it'll choose the best route.

Let's use the destination Point B. The Supervisor hits the panic button and puts all the train cars that are on the track (in your body) on overdrive. The tunnels are flooded with water and lubricant to speed all the cars up and get them the hell out of there as quickly as possible. Cars collide with each other, and previously well formed cars are just flooded with water and lubricant that they are just a soggy, shadowy reminder of their former glory state.

The Media (pain) hears about the car collisions immediately begins filming live the high speed, flooded train cars out of control. They want to knos how an alien set of train cars were put on the tracks and they want someone to pay for such carelessness. The Manager is just watching the horror unfold on Live TV but cannot do anything to stop it, because the Supervisor was deaf and he had not installed a means of communicating with him after hours in the office.

I hope this answers your question.

TL;DR when you get diarrhea, everything gets pushed out, one way or another. There are no passing lanes.

Source: medical student

Edit: Wow, thanks for the gold!!

Question: Why are mobile websites much faster and more responsive than the dedicated App they beg you to install?
Answer: Follow-up question: does it have something to do with revenue? Are there more ads on the horrible apps? Good question, OP!

Question: Why does smoking a cigarrete make me have to poop?
Answer: Nicotine is a stimulant and has that effect on your digestive system - it speeds up transit time. It's similar with coffee. Interesting related fact: coffee and strong alcohol speed up your stomach emptying, which in turn makes you feel less uncomfortably full, hence why you have these at the end of a massive meal

Question: What did the Marbury vs Madison exactly deal with and why is that case so significant?
Answer: The *extremely* ELI4 version is that *Marbury v. Madison* established "judicial review" in America: The idea that a court's job isn't just to decide individual cases based on the law, but also decide if laws themselves are in line with the constitution, and strike them down if they aren't. This is a big deal, as judicial review is now 95% of what the Supreme Court does.

Question: WHY do females ejaculate during intercourse?
Answer: Actually, I think this is a really good question.

[The Truth About Female Ejaculation](_URL_1_)

 > Since 2000, an increasing number of researchers have suggested the liquid may come from the Skene's glands, which are located on the anterior wall of the vagina around the lower end of the urethra. But the truth is we simply don’t know where ejaculate comes from and it’s something that doctors and researchers will continue to study and learn more about over the coming years.

 > As far as the amount of ejaculate, a woman can release as little as a teaspoonful or a capful, yet some claim to “squirt” a great deal more than that. Some studies suggest that all women ejaculate when they reach orgasm, but instead of the fluid being released from the vagina, it is pushed back up into the bladder when the muscles are tightened post-climax. Hence, some women might experience retrograde ejaculate, while others ejaculate outside the body.

[Here's where female ejaculation comes from, and what it's made of](_URL_0_)

Hope this helps.

Question: What exactly makes cannibalism so unhealthy?
Answer: I have a layman's understanding of cannibalism, but...

Meat is full of stuff that can get you sick. Luckily for us, when we eat a different species, the pathogens that are dangerous to that animal aren't dangerous to us (this is excepted by parasites and bacteria, which are bad for most animals). It's the same principle that makes it so that we can catch the flu from other people, but not from our pets.

This is why diseases that cross species and diseases that are dangerous to humans but not animals are such a big deal (swine flu, avian flu, the Black Death, Mad Cow Disease, every disease transmitted via mosquito, etc).

Question: How is wasting water bad for the environment?
Answer: Water which has been purified for our use required energy to prepare. Making more will require the use of more energy which these days is typically generated by burning fossil fuels. So while the water itself is recyclable and renewable the energy used to do so is not.

Question: What happened in history to associate the Jewish culture with controlling the media?
Answer: There literally are many jewish men in powerful positions within the movie and TV business. Here's a short list:


*Gerald Levin - Time Warner, HBO CEO
*Michael Eisner - Disney CEO, Succeeded by Bob Iger (who is also Jewish).
*David Geffen - DreamWorks, Geffen Records
*All the Warner Bros. 
*The Weinsteins (founders of Miramax)
*Spielberg
*Louis Mayer - Founder of MGM
*President of ABC, Leonard Goldenson
*Founder of CBS William Paley


A very powerful group indeed!

Question: Why do researchers who do tests on mice have to comply with strict ethical regulations, and yet it is legal for me to use mousetraps and very painful poisons to remove them from my house?
Answer: Research is just highly regulated in that any research animal must be treated with the utmost respect and dignity because its life provides us with valuable information that helps either their species or ours. 

Pest animals are slightly different in that they have the potential to carry disease, so they must be removed from the home or else you/your family is at risk. 

Poisons aren't the most humane things, but the snap traps are actually very humane and cause instant death through severing the spinal cord. They actually use snap traps in field research.

Question: How is /r/gonewild legal?
Answer: Reddit doesn't own or even hold on to any images, it simply links to places on the Internet that do.

To expand: Even though there are issues with assisting in the distribution of things like child pornography, as long as Reddit takes steps to ensure that shouldn't happen and doesn't willingly allow it to happen, then they're all good.

Question: this proof that 1 + 1 = 2
Answer: The theorem states that if sets a and b each have 1 element, then being disjoint is equivalent to their union having two elements. The comment at the end refers to how the union of sets is used in their definition of arithmetic.

Going through the proof line by line probably wouldn't be informative as it just refers back to other propositions that they've developed, and if you haven't read the entire book before this proposition, you don't know what facts they've already developed. At this level, everything seems obvious anyway.

Basically: let a = {x}, b = {y}. By a previous proposition, a U b has two elements if and only if x != y if and only if {x} and {y} are disjoint if and only if a and b are disjoint. The last bit ties this up into the form of the proposition. Each of those if and only ifs are from a previous proposition.

Question: What is cloud engineering?
Answer: A very, very high level explanation -Computers, networks, security, and storage can combine all together to make up what is known as a cloud. In a cloud each of those components can grow or shrink based on how much they are needed.  Cloud engineering keeps all of those things up and running so companies can run applications  like Reddit does.  A cloud engineer needs to understand how all of those things work together but may not necessarily control each component. For example, a cloud engineer may not actually control the storage, that may be the responsibility of a storage engineer, but they need to understand when an issue is resulting from a problem with a computer, the network, the storage, etc. There is typically a cloud engineering team supporting this work, not just one person.

Question: Why is the heart associated with the part of the brain responsible for emotions?
Answer: I think emotions were traditionally associated with bodily organs such as the heart, from long before modern science determined that emotions arise in the brain. The heart was supposed to be the seat of love.
Another example would be the expression 'to have guts', implying that courage arose from the stomach. 
And of course there is the phrase 'to have balls', often applied to women who have none...

Question: Why is the subject of blackholes so fundamental when learning about the nature of the universe?
Answer: There are two prevailing theories that rule in physics: general relativity and quantum theory.  General relativeity deals with really big or massive things like stars and galaxies, while quantum theory deals with really small things like subatomic particles.  General relativity describes gravity, while quantum physics describes the other forces.  The problem is they aren't compatible theories, and yet they both, as far as all our collected evidence suggest, are correct.  This is a problem.  Physicists want *one* theory that explains everything, not two that are both true but incompatible and incomplete.  Black holes are super massive and super tiny; this is where relativity and quantum theory meet.  Figuring out black holes will help us figure out how to marry quantum theory and gravity... at least that's the idea.

Question: Data Compression. How can information be reduced in size and still be the same?
Answer: Let's do this in a really simple, visual kind of way. Here's two ways of expressing the same thing:

WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWW

17 W's.

Now, they both show the same thing. But the second takes up only 6 characters (including the space), while the first takes up 17 characters

The same basic idea is how data compression works. If you've got a piece of information that repeats itself a lot, you can compress it like that.

Question: Why is Hypothesis part of the Scientific Method?
Answer: It is possible to gather data with no hypothesis, and then create a hypothesis (based on looking at the data) and then test it (using numerical analysis of the data against the hypothesis).

However, most a hypothesis is needed to tell you *what data to gather.* For example, if I have a hypothesis that protein in the diet affects the fertility of crows, then I need to gather a population of crows, divide them into at least two groups, and ensure that the groups get diets with differing amounts of protein. With no hypothesis, I would never have considered doing that.

Question: Why Internet Explorer is bad.
Answer: Copy and pasting from the multiple [times](_URL_2_) this has [been](_URL_1_) [asked](_URL_3_) [before](_URL_0_):

Competition in browsers is good.

IE duked it out with the Netscape until they "won" the browser war by giving it away free and bundling it with the world's most popular PC operating system. Netscape went belly up and Microsoft decided to rest on its laurels with IE 6.

Since IE 6 was around for so long, applications that utilized its often unique features were coded, and workarounds for bugs that existed in the rendering engine were developed. Malware developers used these bugs to infect your computer just by visiting a bad webpage.

Mozilla, and later Firefox became viable and then superior alternatives to IE6. The loss of market share caused Microsoft to restart IE development bringing us versions 7, 8, and 9.

Since millions of dollars of IE6-only internal web applications were developed, stingy businesses don't want to recode for standards-compliant browsers when things "work just fine." This large population of users forced to use IE6 made every web developer's job much harder.

Question: Why do some websites tell you that they use cookies and have a 'got it' button, if almost every website uses cookies?
Answer: The EU made it mandatory for websites in that region to inform users that they're putting a small file on the users computer, that can be used to track that users browsing habit on that and other sites.

Privacy laws are a big thing in Europe, so it was a long thing common. It basically means that you now consent to them doing that, whereas before unless you were tech-savvy, you have no idea. 

If you're not in Europe, and/or browsing a European site, you might still see it, as it's easier to just make it a global site change, than to filter it depending on where the users are coming from. 

tl;dr: EU made it mandatory to tell people they're being tracked by cookies, as most people have absolutely no idea what a cookie even is, much less what they do, and people ought to consent to that kind of thing.

Question: How do surfers survive wipe outs on enormous waves?
Answer: They relax until the wave lets them go then they head for the surface. By relaxing they don't get an elevated heart rate and can manage to hold their breath just fine. Remember, huge waves break into deep water so you're not going to get pile driven into a reef like at Pipeline and Teahupo'o

Pretty much the longest you'll get held down for is 30 seconds (double wave hold downs and such) so you do have to be in pretty good shape physically

Question: Israel and Palestine, specifically why Israel's "Settlements" aren't called "Colonies"
Answer: > Why are the Palestinians treated as a lesser people in the UN? 

The short answer is because they are essentially a stateless people. It could in some ways be compared to Romani (Gypsies) who, as they have no country to be a part of the United *Nations* are also under represented.

The real question is why did Israel end up a state and not Palestine. The most concise answer to this question is that the UN granted Israel statehood, and it became a state on borders that were influenced by the Partition Plan. The territories that didn't become Israel, instead of becoming Palestine, became parts of the neighboring Arab states. In this way the Palestinians did not get a state when the region became decolonized, and essentially it is something that is still trying to be rectified.

 > Why does the US not try to help the Palestian people?

This may sound cynical but no country in the world is truly altruistic and the U.S. is no exception. The U.S. sees strategic value in its relationship with Israel and isn't willing to jeopardize that. Right now the government of Israel is rightist so the U.S. can't take a hard line against human rights violations without alienating what they consider to be a key ally in the region. The U.S. has supported all sorts of unsavory states over the years in order to maintain influence, in this sense Israel is really not unique. 

The other reason that the U.S. doesn't take a hard stance against Israel is the presence of a large number of people that live in the U.S., both Jewish and Christian, care a whole lot about Israel and are really offended when people criticize it. This, plus the fact that they are very vocal about their opinions.

 > why Israel's "settlements" aren't called "colonies"

Basically Israel doesn't want to incorporate all of the territory it administers into its actual country for a variety of reasons. The word colony implies that it is a part of the mother country in a more complete and permanent sense. One could make a case for calling the entirety of the occupied territories a colony, but it doesn't really make sense to call just the settler communities colonies. They aren't regions of the occupied territories that are under substantially more Israeli control so much as they are areas where some Israelis have decided to live.

Question: How does something like a coral colony or a Portuguese Man o' War (the animal), which are made out of many smaller organisms, know what shape to take?
Answer: Man o'War grow as a stem, like a backbone, that is segmented into buds that grow into a cluster of all three types of the specialized zooids. The stem keeps growing with age, with the oldest and largest zooids at the back, and the stem growing forward with the youngest zooids and new buds at the front. Because of the clustering, it has a repeating pattern of zooids along the length.

They're only kind of separate organisms. They're genetically identical and come from one egg, grow off the same stem, and always stay attached. Only one type of zooid reproduces, and the others just sting and eat. It's just that each zooid has a body plan homologous to what some animals use for their entire body. Personally I would say they are a single modular animal.

source: [diagram on page 10](_URL_0_), and [glossary on page 1](_URL_1_)

Question: what would happen if all consumer debt in the US was suddenly erased?
Answer: It depends entirely with *how* it was wiped. If all the companies that lent the money just had to deal with the loss of writing off all the debt, there would be a massive financial collapse including all the major banks. People would no longer be able to get credit cards, car loans, or mortgages as every lending institution would no longer exist.  

If the government paid everyone's debt, than there would be a massive devaluation of the currency which would have dramatic economic effects to the entire world.

Either way it is not a pretty picture.

Question: How does your eye react to small things that you can't see and close on its own.
Answer: Your brain reacts to a threat it "sees" before it processes what it has seen. That combined with your body naturally also getting on high alert in this situation help it to respond quicker than what we can physically see. 

Theres always a slight delay between what is happen and what our brain processes because the nerve impulses have a finite speed; it is very fast, but still not instantaneous. So when faced with a threat, the body first sends a single to make sure the eyes closed, which (at this moment) is more important than knowing what exactly was headed our way.

Question: What can cause stuttering on a person who didn't stutter before?
Answer: you might be like me in that you don't know the best way to put what you are trying to say into words because of all the thoughts running through your head. that's my 2 sense

Question: In what sense slower waves carry more energy?
Answer: They don't. Perhaps you were hearing a reference to how *large* (high) waves carry more energy, and in water these tend to be farther apart than small waves.

Question: Why are DVDs region locked?
Answer: So that DVDs can be sold at different prices in different regions. Without it, someone could buy the DVDs in a cheaper region, then sell them in a more expensive region to make money. That would force the price of DVDs in the expensive region way down, and the maker of the DVD wouldn't make as much money both by selling fewer DVDs in the expensive region, and those DVDs that they do sell will be for a lower price.

Question: How owning a server machine is useful.
Answer: There are several benefits, but it depends on how you want to use it. Here are a few:

* You can build your own web site - you yourself will handle and control the contents and maintenance of it locally
* You can have a host computer server and buy cheap network clients, that way you only need to maintain one system rather than several
* You can have the server automate a lot of tasks on itself and other computers (downloading, uploading/updating, etc.)

Servers are meant to "serve"

Question: How come when an object starts spining (like a helicopter blade) it looks like it reverses it's direction after a certain speed?
Answer: I guess I'll explain it like you're four since apparently there are some genius five year olds.

Your eyes / the TV screen are a camera. Everything you see is a bunch of pictures in a real fast slideshow. Fudge spins so fast that the next "picture" you see is with the blades slightly behind where they were in the last picture, looking like it's going the opposite direction, instead of being slightly ahead of where they were. 

EDIT: Replaced "fudge" with "fudge" to make it clean for innocent little four-year-old /u/wleoncio

EDIT 2: Replaced the swear word for "poop", usually follows the word "bull", in my first edit with "fudge" so /u/wleoncio doesn't come after me.

EDIT 3: WARNING - Prime level ELI5 discourse below, fitting for ELI6.
No, the eyes don't have a predetermined "framerate" that they can see at. 30fps maximum is bs. So is 60fps maximum. The thought goes that you cant tell the difference between 300fps and 400fps. Of course you can notice between 1fps and 10fps, that's where people imagining a maximum at 60fps or whatever comes from. A lot of the strange videos with the heliblade not moving has to do with *shutter speed*, not *frames per second*. Shutter speed is how long each frame is exposed for. Fps is... how many frames are captured per second.

EDIT 4: Big blunder on my part. Sorry for implying that the eye functions like a tv screen. We're on eli5, not askscience, so I was trying to keep it simple. I think the main thing in this post is a video of a helicopter, in which case the explanation holds water. If you're seeing it happen in real life the illusion operates on a similar level, but it's not as simple as you as a human having bad framerate / shutter speed /etc.

Question: Why does dictatorship come with poverty
Answer: Because the more money the populace has, the better educated they will be. And the better educated they are, the less likely they will be to put up with a dictatorship.

Also, in more affluent societies, there is wealth distribution away from the government, which means that economic pressure can easily be applied to the government. In an impoverished nation, that's much more difficult to do from the inside.

Question: The TeaParty
Answer: [This video featuring Rick Santelli](_URL_0_) is the first time I ever heard of the idea of a tea party. Whether that started it all or not is up for debate. Some say the 2008 Ron Paul campaign was the trigger. Who knows.

The movement is most made up of mostly conservatives and some libertarians who chose to focus on government spending and debt. This is a break from both the conservative and libertarian focuses of the Bush administration. Spending was not the biggest issue when Bush was in office for conservatives. The war on terror and social issues ruled the day. 

For libertarians, their Bush years were focused on stopping wars and the patriot act type stuff. Both groups were against spending in theory those years, but didn't make quite as much noise about it as they did when Obama got elected.

The tea party has no official leader and is mainly composed of small local groups and some larger political action committees. They promote candidates who talk tough on spending or are opposing people they call moderates. This has had mixed results and lead to some looney candidates being nominated. Two examples would be Christine O'Donnel and Sharon Angle. Neither was ready for prime time. The successes would be Marc Rubio and Rand Paul among others.

So it's basically a loose alliance of people who are against government spending. There are far right fundamentalist christians in the tea party and there are dope smoking libertarians in the tea party. There was talk of the tea party moving the republicans in a direction that took social issues off the table until the spending problem was addressed, but that doesn't seem to be happening based on what I see at the republican debates.

Question: "Light Pollution" and why it prevents us from seeing stars in cities
Answer: When there is a lot of light on the ground, some of it goes up and makes the sky look brighter by lighting up dust in the air.

And just like seeing a flash light in a dark room is easier then in a bright room, stars are easier to see in a dark sky then a bright sky.

Question: Why flies come right back to f*** with me even after I swat at them?
Answer: They don't even know what you are. They don't understand the difference between you and an inanimate object. For all they know, your hand swatting them is an entirely different thing from your face or body.

Question: Why were most presidents attorneys before taking office? What is it about the legal profession that creates so many leaders?
Answer: Our societies are founded on law; which if you think about it are just promises made by the general population to behave orderly (but of course we have the police for enforcement) - so to lead a society founded on law  &  order you have to be well versed in the laws which dictate how society conducts itself. Also the social circles of attorneys and politicians intersect often.

Question: What happens in your body to give you a "dead leg"?
Answer: Scientific term of a dead leg(Charlie horse) would be a quadricep contusion.  Basically it is your muscle being crushed into your thigh bone.  

There are two types of contusions:

Intramuscular which is a tearing of the muscle within the sheath that surrounds it. This means that the initial bleeding may stop early (within hours) because of increased pressure within the muscle however the fluid is unable to escape as the muscle sheath prevents it. The result is considerable loss of function and pain which can take days or weeks to recover. You are not likely to see any bruising come out with this type - especially in the early stages.

Intermuscular which is a tearing of the muscle and part of the sheath surrounding it. This means that the initial bleeding will take longer to stop especially if you do not ice it. However recovery is often faster than intramuscular as the blood and fluids can flow away from the site of injury. You are more likely to see bruising come out with this one.

Question: If it's bad for you to eat late at night does that mean people who work night shifts are less healthy?
Answer: The eating late at night stuff has been debunked.

What actually happens is people who usually eat late (before bed) tend to gain weight because consume more calories - but this isn't a factor of eating late, but simply a factor of eating _more_.

Question: Sometimes when I close one eye at a time, I notice that each eye sees slightly different colors. Why does this happen and how does the brain resolve putting those two different images together?
Answer: Aside from differences in the light that is entering each eye, it could have something to do with having a slightly different number of the types of cone cells in the retina of each eye.  The cones come in 3 different types and they each pick up a different wavelength of light.  If you have more of one type than another in one eye compared to the other eye, that could account for a slight difference in the tone or saturation of color that you are seeing.  I have this too - one eye sees color as warmer than the other.

Question: How does selective breeding work?
Answer: We can selectively breed any species that mates. We have made glow in the dark jelly fish and non-venomous snakes using genetic technology, but a lot of people forget that selective breeding began with the dawn of our civilization. We've selectively bred Chickens, Cows, Pigs, Corn, Bananas--everything we eat was selected to be tastier or easier to grow and maintain for humanity. Regarding traits, we cannot create traits from DNA that doesn't exist, but we can see every single trait within a species using our current genetic methods. With that, we can choose which animals mate.

If you want an example, we can look at dogs. It probably began where two relatively less aggressive dogs (we'll give them rating 8/10) were mated. Maybe the couple gave birth to a dog who is 7/10 aggressive who mated with a 9/10. Over time, we choose mates who would maybe get us down to a 5/10 aggressive dog. This is why it's said that it takes a very long time to domesticate an animal, or sometimes it's impossible due to how central aggressiveness may be to the animal's reproductive success.

Question: The whole mortgage crisis thingy
Answer: Here's a piece of it.  Tammy buys a house.  In order to get the money to buy a house, she goes to ABC Bank and takes out a $100,000 loan.  Now remember ABC Bank has a lot of customers just like Tammy.  ABC Bank is *hoping* that Tammy and everyone else pays them back.

This is where AIG steps in.  "Hey, ABC Bank, you have 10 Tammys each owing you $100,000.  That's a million dollars.  I'll tell you what, you give me $100,000 and I'll pay off the rest of Tammy's or anyone else's loan if they can't pay it back."  AIG is offering insurance to ABC Bank.  They are actually doing this with a LOT of banks, not just ABC Bank.

Why would AIG do this?  ABC Bank paid AIG $100,000.  AIG got that money for nothing but assuming a risk.  So far, it's free money for AIG.  As long as Tammy and 9 other people like her pay back ABC Bank, then AIG makes money.  If Tammy or anyone else stop paying their loan back to ABC Bank, then ABC can go to AIG and say, "Hey Tammy's not paying us.  We gave you $100,000 for this insurance.  You now owe us the balance on Tammy's property."

Historically this would have been a safe bet for AIG to make.  But since Tammy and all of her neighbors lost their jobs at the same time, or because Tammy and her neighbors built more house than they can afford (depending on your point of view), AIG was on the hook for a SHITLOAD of mortgages.  In fact, it turned out to be more money than AIG had laying around.

The banks felt good about their insurance policy with AIG and kept loaning money to people.  The criteria for loans lessened because the banks' risks lessened because they had this fancy insurance.

When it all came crashing down, AIG couldn't pay up, which affected LOTS of banks.  Again, this is only a piece of it, but it's the piece I know more than any other because of my line of work.

Question: With 1:175M odds, and the jackpot being $500M, why wouldn't you buy one of each possible lottery ticket?
Answer: You may end up splitting the take, and then you pay taxes. The odds are long, but if someone else winds the pot, then you're splitting $500 million with another person, and getting only $250 million. The government takes 50% of that in taxes (roughly), so suddenly you've paid $175 million to make $125 million. Oh, and if you want all that money now, instead of pieced out over a few decades, you take 50% of *that*, so you're getting $125m *even if nobody else wins*.

You can make more with that $175M if you invest it right, over the next 20 years, than you'd make from winning $500M paid out over 20 years with only a 4% annual increase.

Question: What even is spacetime?
Answer: Imagine a picture is two dimensions.

Three dimensions is more like the world we live in.

If you add time, that becomes the fourth dimension.

All 4 dimensions of the 3 dimension environment plus the time factor is described as space time.

_URL_0_

Question: Period accurate t.v. shows and movie props.
Answer: It depends on the item.  Cars and most props can be rented from collectors, that's one way for a collector to subsidize their hobby.  Clothes are just made by costumers, old ones would be too fragile.

Where can you get it, also depends on the item, from Mecum auctions to eBay, collectors are out there someplace.

Question: Can someone explain to me how compression braking works?
Answer: I assume you mean a jake brake. 

First, start with an engine. Suck, squeeze, bang, blow. 

* draw air and fuel into the engine
* squeeze (compress) it
* light it on fire which drives the piston down forcefully 
* push the remains out the exhaust

Now imagine an engine with the fuel removed. 

* draw intake air, without fuel, in.
* compress it
* de-compress it (instead of blowing it up)
* push it out the exhaust. 

So without fuel, you get some air, the piston goes up, then it gets pushed back down. This is essentially an air spring. The harder you squeeze the air, the harder it pushes back. However, just like a spring, you can't use this as a brake because all the energy you add to the air by compressing it comes right back when it pushes the piston back down. 

A jake brake is a device that opens the exhaust valve prematurely, releasing the compressed air before the piston starts going back down again. Now you've converted the engine into an air compressor, which requires energy to operate (unlike the spring, whose net energy consumption is 0). The energy comes from the kinetic energy of the truck, and therefore the truck slows down.

Jake brakes work better on diesel engines because they don't have a throttle. Gas engines have a throttle which is closed and won't allow air to enter the engine. Newer electronic throttles and engine computers could allow a jake brake, but it would be a bit pointless.

Question: How can half the mass of some foods be sugar?
Answer: Yes, it's a different form in part. 

In jams and such, much of the sugar is in the non-fruit part itself or soaked into the flesh of the fruit. Taste strawberries from a jam vs normal or dried strawberries. 

The reason is twofold. The sugar helps to preserve the fruit and keep it from spoiling and to improve it. 

Along with the table sugar, sucrose, in the jam, there are the naturally occurring fruit sugars like glucose and fructose among other, more complicated saccharides.

Question: Why do hotels call it "continental" breakfast?
Answer: It is based on traditional breakfasts held on Continental Europe (mainly France). It was inherited from our British origins.

Question: Why are 1080p 60fps videos easier to load than gifs?
Answer: Gifs have notoriously bad compression, which means you're using way more bandwidth for the same image quality if you're considering 1080p60fps on youtube, for example, which has excellent compression.

Question: How do prosthetic limbs work above the elbow or knee?
Answer: So in most cases, above the knee (AK) amputees actually don't have powered or robotic or hydraulic knees. They are very very expensive, heavy,  and mostly experimental. Normal people don't get them. Most use a "free knee", which means they must land on it fully extended so they can weight bear on it. Then when they step onto the opposite leg they use hip flexion to swing it forward. It then kicks out and extends so they can land on it straight. People can get so good at it that only a PT can recognize the gait. This also allows the leg to bend naturally when the person sits (they control their descent with the good leg). There are many many ankle options out there, from the "runner" foot or blade to the pointed foot for dancers to a regular, nonflexible ankle and foot. With a prosthetic, the fewer moving parts the easier it is to predict and control. All this being said, prosthetics is a rapidly moving field due to all the soldiers coming back and needing innovative solutions.

Question: Why does ice cream taste sweeter after melting?
Answer: Your tongue is better able to taste sweetness when the taste buds are not cold. So letting the ice cream melt somewhat prevents it suppressing your tongue's response.

Question: why are humans the only animals that have periods?
Answer: Humans are not the only animals that have menstrual cycles. Other primates, some bats, and these little mammals called elephant shrews have menstrual cycles. But most of the time, all the uterine lining is reabsorbed if there is no pregnancy. Humans reabsorb some of the uterine lining as well, but not all of it. 

Most mammals have seasonal fertility cycles called estrous cycles. Sometimes the estrous cycle will result in bleeding, but it's not the exact same thing as a menstrual period. 

The reason we lose blood each month is because our uterine linings are much thicker than any other mammal's. There are a few hypotheses about this. One is that it helps shield the mother's body from the fetus burrowing too deep into the uterus. Another is that shedding the uterine lining instead of reabsorbing all of it helps "flush out" any miscarriages that get stuck. Humans seem to have a lot of miscarriages compared to other animals, but it's difficult to pin down how many because a lot of miscarriages happen before the woman knows she is pregnant. 

[More info](_URL_0_)

Question: Why can't Flint just switch their water back to their old water source to fix the problem?
Answer: That's pretty much what they're going to do, but right now, there's still a bunch of lead-y water soaking in the pipes, and no good way to scrub it out.

Question: How can pro gamers stream music while playing without getting in trouble?
Answer: IT would take the copyright holder of the music to go through the effort of trying to sue them or take legal action, etc. And that would be only if they didn't think it was a good thing for their music (they may like the publicity and not care about charging mere pennies to broadcast it)

So you can go through a massive legal effort to deal with this, for pennies in return and bad PR, or just enjoy that people may find your music and possibly buy the albums etc.

No copyright holder is going to bother with these niche people streaming a videogame. They have better things to do with their lives.

Question: Making money on a falling stock market
Answer: I believe you're referring to "shorting" or "short selling".

Let's say that you think that a stock will drop in value.  In that case, what you might do is *borrow* some stock from me, for a fee.  But it's still just borrowing, and you have to give the equivalent number of shares back to me at the end of the loan period.  See, I'm betting on the price not changing much, and so I'm just out to make a quick buck by lending my shares, but I ultimately want to keep them.

So back to you.  You take these shares that I loaned you, and you turn around and sell them.  You're anticipating that the price will drop, and you will then be able to buy the equivalent number of shares back for a lower price before the loan period is up.  Your goal is to sell those shares at at a high price, and buy them back low enough to offset the fee I'm charging you and make some extra money in the process.

So if the stock falls in value, you make money.  But f it *doesn't* fall in value, you're kind of screwed, because you still have to return the stock to me, and now you're out the fee *plus* the lost value from having to to-repurchase the stocks at a higher price.

Question: How do reality tv contestants afford to be on a show and still pay bills at home?
Answer: Those shows are not filming everyday like you might think. My family had one season on TV. The film crew would come into town for a weekend and they would give a very strict itinerary for the events. Many events and different places for each day they were in town. My family would have to bring a completely different outfit to each time slot in the day to give the illusion that the show films over many days. 


Oh and they would take pictures of every single item in everyones complete attire for each time slot. They would then give you pictures and tell you what outfit to bring to film those "behind the scenes" one on one interviews. I forget what they call them, but you know the little clips that look like you are talking about what just happened minutes ago? Those take place at completely seperate dates and are mostly scripted.

Question: Why don't the Palestinians push for enfranchisement within Israel instead of a separate state?
Answer: Historically the, Israelis have been more opposed to a one-state solution than the Palestinians. This is because Israel is the "jewish state" and it is perceived that creating one state for both Israelis and Palestinians would compromise this identity. Furthermore, Palestinians have higher birth rates than Israelis, which prompts the fear that they would eventually become a majority. 

Furthermore, it's not very tempting for the Palestinians to submit themselves to an authority that is currently brutalising them and illegally seizing their lands. It'd be like India pushing for equal status in the Commonwealth as opposed to independence in the 40's.

Question: Aside from ethical reasons, why don't citizens physically take over a corrupt government and start a new one with new legislation?
Answer: > What's stopping people exactly from physically taking over the government?

Two things, one immediately practical, one more abstract (but no less practical).

As to the first, the US government--for all its problems--is *incredibly* well organized compared to the government of Ukraine, and it's got a *lot* more people with guns it can deploy in its own defense. Popular uprisings only really work against weak governments, and the US government is anything but weak. Not to put too fine a point on it, but what with the National Guard and federal military units on standby, US authorities can probably deploy no less than several thousand highly-trained troops, all armed to the *teeth*, to multiple locations within US borders in less than 24 hours. That's just not something rational people want to tangle with.

Second, the US government--for all its problems--actually does a good-enough job that most people would rather deal with those problems than risk their lives in an attempt to overthrow it directly. I mean, sure, there's inefficiency and some degree of undue influence at all levels of government in the US, but that notwithstanding. . . life is still pretty danged good for the vast majority of the population. Even the very poor aren't generally starving to death. And not to minimize reports of excessive force and police brutality, US law enforcement is downright domesticated compared to some other countries'. In short, when you compare what we might stand to gain by violent revolution with what we stand to *lose*, even the revolution is successful, most people just don't seem to think that it's worth it.

Question: Why is it that negative emotions can feel...nice?
Answer: When you are feeling down, your body does two things.

1 - It tries to reverse this with happy feelings, caused by dopamine and serotonin. People who can't do this suffer from clinical depression.

2 - Because you feel sad, your happy moments feel nicer. If we never felt lonely, then being with friends wouldn't be as nice. If we never felt anger, then compassion wouldn't be as great. If we never felt sad, then laughing would not leave us feeling good. You have to go through valleys and canyons to recognize how tall the mountains truly are.

Question: Why can we take hi-def photos of galaxies light-years away, but yet can only get little pixel pictures of Pluto?
Answer: With a pair of binoculars you will be able to view huge skyscrapers from miles away. But you can't see a gnat on a car just 50 yards away. Same idea basically. Galaxies are massive objects lit by the billions of stars within them. Pluto is just a speck reflecting a tiny bit of light from the sun.

Question: Non linear systems
Answer: In mathematics, a linear system takes a input and returns an outout that proportional to the input. So if you take a input x and output y of the system, and than you take a twice as large as x, then your output is twice as large as well. This makes these kinds of systems easy to handle. Non linear systems have no such rule. For an input 2 as large as x, you might as wel get an output that a thousand times larger, or a million times smaller. This makes problems involving these systems harder.

Question: So what exactly are Hilbert's Problems?
Answer: The problem here is that you're asking for a layman's explanation for something that really doesn't have one. In order to understand this specific problem you need to at least take a short lecture in the basics of group and field theories. 

Some of these problems however can be explained quite simply (for example #7 and #10), while others cannot.

Question: What's the difference between a theory, a theorem, a postulate, a law, etc?
Answer: I'm no scientist or mathematician, but here is my understanding:

A **postulate** is a basic fact that we assume to be true when we build a theory. For an example, one of Euclid's postulates is that  for any line and a point not on that line, there will be a line parallel to the first line that runs through that given point.

A **theorem** is something that you prove using postulates. Using Euclid's postulates, we can figure out that if two triangles have 3 congruent sides, the triangles themselves are congruent.

A **hypothesis** is a proposed explanation for an observation. 

A **theory** is a general and relatively confirmed explanation for a set of observations. Evolution and general relativity all fit in this category. 

A **law** is an ~~analytical~~ statement that has been tested and confirmed many times. They contain constants and are usually expressed as an equation. Theories often contain laws. Ohm's law and the ideal gas law are both examples of a law. 

EDIT: Whoops; Euclid != Euler

Question: Can someone explain to me how Formula One works LI5?
Answer: > Why don't just they use the same car every season?

The short answer is; tuning is a complicated art. A five year old probably wouldn't understand some of the following but here goes; 

All F1 cars have pretty much the same engine and transmission to start with; but the speed of the car both in the straights and the corners is affected by MANY different things; type of tyres, tyre pressure, downforce, tranmission ratio (this changes how fast the car accelarates compared to it's top speed, shorter gears mean a faster accelaration time, but a lower top speed in each gear) and weather makes a HUGE difference. The list of factors which will affect a car's lap time is basically endless, and each driver will have their preferences. They're always trying to find a way to beat the other cars without just putting a bigger engine in the car (that's against the rules obviously) and so each season one car *may* have a clear advantage over the others *if* they've got everything tuned just right.

So this season, the red bull car may well be the fastest in the straights, but will it be any good on tight bends? Will they pick the right tyres for a wet weather race? Will the driver like the changes his team have made this year?

This is what F1 fans (including myself) love about the sport, how mind boggling complicated it is; it's also the reason my girlfriend thinks it's a dorky sport for anorak wearing car geeks.

TL:DR. F1 cars are really, *really* complicated.

Question: why do humans perceive numbers in a logarithmic way instead of a linear way?
Answer: Going from $1 to $8 is a 700% increase, while going from $501 to $508 is less than 2%. It's more about percentages than raw numbers.

Question: In cases where people die of an allergic reaction, why is the reaction the body chooses one that kills you rather than letting in whatever its trying to keep out?
Answer: Allergies are a *defect* (like a software bug) in the way our body's immune system works. Because having an extra-powerful immune system mostly kept our ancestors alive against many *real* threats, evolution didn't weed these people out, so we inherited this problem.

Question: with taxes on almost everything, how is it that governments don't eventually end up with most of the money in the economy?
Answer: >  How is it, that the receivers of this tax money, don't just eventually end up with most of it, and the rest of us end up broke?

The government spends a huge amount of money on goods and services. All those people working for the government get paid, all those things the government use are bought from suppliers, etc. In the US we have fairly consistently been spending more than is taken in with taxes.

Question: How do game designers fix glitches in their games when the cause of the glitch makes no sense?
Answer: Debugging is among the hardest parts of programming.

Suppose that you have found a glitch. The first thing to do is to figure out under what circumstances the glitch is triggered. In a video game, a glitch might appear in a certain place, after a period of time, when the player has certain equipment, and so forth. A video game studio will have a legion of dedicated testers trained to identify the key components of a bug:

- What were you doing before the bug occurred?
- What specific action produced the unexpected result?
- What result did you expect?
- What result occurred?

Then, you use your knowledge of the code to figure out what parts of the program contribute to the behavior you expected. One of them is probably doing something wrong. You may use a tool called a "debugger" to peek into the program's internals while it was running. You might write a few conditions ("at line 2398, the value of x should be 42") and let the debugger notify you if those conditions are violated. Once you've narrowed it down, you might use the debugger to "step" line-by-line through the program as it is executing, until you see the exact point at which the error originates.

Once you've found the source of the bug, you figure out what that part of the code is supposed to do, and correct it if it's not doing that. It may also be that the flaw is in the interface between different parts – two different areas of the code (perhaps written by different people) may have different expectations for how a particular piece of functionality should work. Then, you have have to revise one of them significantly.

Once you think you've fixed it, you send it back to whoever is testing it. They will verify that under the specified conditions, the expected behavior occurs.

Question: What does each wire in a Cat 5e cable actually represent?
Answer: In 10Base-T, each cable is either data receive or data transmit. Signaling is slightly different in 1000Base-T. The unused pins below are used in PoE (power over ethernet) implementations.

Which color is used for which pin isn't super important--they are more or less arbitrary, as long as pins 1/2, 3/6, 4/5, and 7/8 use the same color pairs, but there are standard terminations (TIA/EIA 568A and 568B) that specify which colors are used for which pins. Here are the pin functionalities for each (in 10Base-T):

1 Data (TX +) (white/green for A, white/orange for B)

2 Data (TX -) (green for A, orange for B)

3 Data (RX +) (white/orange for A, white/green for B)

4 Unused (blue for both)

5 Unused (white/blue for both)

6 Data (RX -) (orange for A, green for B)

7 Unused (white/brown for both)

8 Unused (brown for both)

The two standards exist so that crossover cables can be created (T568A on one side and T568B on the other).

Question: How do showers get dirty if water and soap run through them all the time?
Answer: 1) water drops evaporate and the dissolved minerals are left behind
2) soap scum is left behind. It sticks to surfaces and doesn't wash off with just water

Question: I have always been told that it is bad to go outside in the cold when your body is warm or after exercising or something. if it is true, what actually happens?
Answer: As for general warmth of the body I can't really comment, but based on years of experience with sport (predominately baseball) it's a huge deal because when you're muscles are warm and fully stretched the cold can shock the muscles and cause them to constrict leading them to be very tight and sore the next day regardless of how well you've stretched. 



In baseball it's a big issues because the players take the condition of their throwing arm very seriously, which considering its a huge part of the game is understandable. This is why many players will have a cool down routine which often consists of light exercises like throwing a ball while moving closer to their partner, and a light run. After all this is done, they'll most likely wear a jumper to let their bodies cool down even slower to reduce the risk.

Question: Eli how is it that a company like Comcast can change the terms on their residential package contract midway putting a 300gb cap on internet usage without customers re-signing new contracts and still get away with it?
Answer: The contract with you probably allows for specific unilateral changes to certain aspects of it. This is quite common in these types of service contracts. 

You don't read the contract anyways, and if you want service from them then you need to agree to the contract. So agree or no service.

Question: How do they color black and white photos from before color photography was invented?
Answer: Before modern day colorization techniques, my Mom grew up in the 40's and 50's, and she said when they got their black and white photos, they would use make up and color the photos just a little bit. I learned this when we were flipping through an old scrapbook and my Mom had a slight pinkish tone to her lips and cheeks but it was obviously just a b & w photo. I just thought that was very interesting and strange.

Question: How literally are we taking the "like you are talking to a 5 year old" thing?
Answer: I think this reddit would've worked better if it was called explainlikeimtwelve.

Question: Why is everyone bringing up net neutrality all of a sudden?
Answer: To see this response, please pay $19.95 to upgrade to the Web + Social Sites package.  For a total of only $99.95 per month you'll have access to all of your favorite standard sites (_URL_1_, _URL_2_, _URL_0_) plus the hottest social sites on the web, including Reddit and Myspace.

And don't forget about this month's deal on a streaming pass.  For a one time activation fee of $215.49 only $12.95 per gigabyte after that, you can stream data, which means you can use Hulu, Netflix, and play some of the games in our Online Gaming Access Package (not included).  Exciting games like Microsoft's Minecraft!

Question: American Housing mortgage  &  loan system and what happened in 2008?
Answer: First, I have no idea what the housing system is in India. So, take it for what it's worth :-p

A mortgage is just a loan like any other loan. Someone gives you money, in exchange you pay them back the money they gave you plus some more. A highly simplified example (using really small numbers because they're easier to work with):

Say you want to buy a house. The house costs $100. You don't have $100, but you want to buy the house. So you go to a bank and the bank says that they'll give you $100, but only if you pay them $10 for the next 11 weeks. This means:

* Week 1: you pay $10 - you've paid a total of $10 to the bank
* Week 2: you pay $10 - you've paid a total of $20 to the bank
* Week 3: you pay $10 - you've paid a total of $30 to the bank
* Week 4: you pay $10 - you've paid a total of $40 to the bank
* Week 5: you pay $10 - you've paid a total of $50 to the bank
* Week 6: you pay $10 - you've paid a total of $60 to the bank
* Week 7: you pay $10 - you've paid a total of $70 to the bank
* Week 8: you pay $10 - you've paid a total of $80 to the bank
* Week 9: you pay $10 - you've paid a total of $90 to the bank
* Week 10: you pay $10 - you've paid a total of $100 to the bank
* Week 11: you pay $10 - you've paid a total of $110 to the bank

After week 11 you own the house "free and clear". You get what you want: to live in the house immediately, and the bank gets what they want: to give $100 and get back $110.

It's just like any other loan. But there are some minor differences. Like, some people think buying a house is a good investment because the $100 house might be worth $120 by the time you own it "free and clear". Some people think buying a house is good because it's what society expects. Some people think buying a house is good because it's part of "the American dream". But the bottom line is that a mortgage is just a loan.

-----------------------------------------

I recommend you use the search function for terms like "housing bubble" or even "2008" or "financial crisis". There are a lot of answers better than I could give. And the housing crisis - or housing bubble - isn't the same as the financial crisis. (Although they are connected in complicated ways that are hard to understand clearly.)

I'm seeing some good answers from the search function. Hopefully they can help you out, if not 1) hopefully someone else here can answer, or 2) hopefully you can narrow down your question and someone can answer that.

Question: Why does my iPhone say I have 4.4 gigs of memory used in pictures and yet I have no pictures on my phone
Answer: It's photos saved in messages, possibly cached photos. Delete some conversations, or (I highly recommend) jailbreak your phone, install iCleaner and it will clear ALL that crap out.

Question: Why is there an increase in the number of insects and other critters in my home in the summer, vs in the winter, shouldn't it be the other way around?
Answer: Because there are more insects. Most insects will hibernate or simply allow most of the species to die off in the winter and let eggs hatch in the spring.

In the summer you have all those insects able to live easily and therefore they are growing and creating new colonies and laying more eggs.

Question: How do Venus flytraps digest pray?
Answer: The head of the flytrap seals itself and essentially becomes a ‘stomach’ of sorts

Once the pray is trapped and sealed inside the head, it begins to release enzymes and chemicals which break down the prey and digest the essential nutrients.

It can’t always digest everything and often you’ll find parts of insects dropping out after it’s finished eating 

Mostly the external carapace of the creature which again will eventually break down and add nutrients to the soil around it ☺️

Question: Since Edward Snowden has been out of the inner circle for so long, how is he still relevant and threatening?
Answer: What I have understood from [Citizenfour](_URL_0_) documentary, the information he released wasn't nearly everything he had access to. He simply decided to inform public just about the mass surveillance. Imo the argument that he can't do more damage now is false.  

Another thing is that he hasn't been charged yet thanks to asylum in Russia.

Question: How do celebrity's nude photos get "leaked"?
Answer: Modern phones have cloud technology that saves content on servers owned by the provider. Gaining access to an email and password is relatively easy work for a serious hacker and it would be all you need to access those photos on said servers.

Question: You know when you crack open an egg to fry and its a double yoker, if that egg had been kept alive and grown would the chicken(s) have been conjoined or...?
Answer: I think this is pretty rare, but it's one possibility for a double-yolked egg.[half-sider parakeet](_URL_0_)

Question: Why do our teeth fall out at such a young age and grow back? Wouldn't it be more beneficial for this process to happen at like age 50?
Answer: Evolution doesn't care how long you live; it only cares whether you have children. So no, it would not be more beneficial to wait until age 50 to replace your teeth.

Question: How can a touchscreen project black in a power saving way (details on the screen inside)?
Answer: An LCD element is made so it is transparent unless you apply a voltage. When you apply a voltage to the element it is going black. It does not take much power to do this as you only need a voltage and no current. The electricity does not pass through the elements but still affects it. You can get window sized LCD elements that runs on tiny solar cells.

Question: if insects do not have lungs, how do they drown?
Answer: They still absorb oxygen from the air through spiracles.  When the spiracles are submerged, they can't absorb oxygen.

Drowning has less to do with having lungs and more to do with not having gills.

EDIT: Just to help out people too lazy to read through the whole thread:

Insects breathe through tubes in their bodies called trachea - the openings are called spiracles.  The trachea branch from large central tubes from the spiracle openings into thinner and thinner tubes that permeate the insect's body, essentially giving their tissues direct access to air.  Breathing is, for the most part, passive.  The oxygen diffuses throughout the tube from the air, and CO2 diffuses out.  *Some* insects, especially larger ones, have mechanisms to drive air flow to increase the amount of oxygen they get.

Many insects ([and spiders](_URL_1_)) can trap a bubble of air around their abdomens, which is often enough for them to breathe long enough to escape the water (not to mention giving them greater buoyancy), but that supply will not last forever if they stay submerged.  Because the direct access requires air, which exchanges gasses much more readily than water, if water gets into the trachea the insect will drown in pretty much the same way as animals do when water gets into lungs - both mechanisms are poorly adapted to exchange O2 and CO2 in water, and can't do it fast enough.

A surfactant (like soap) lowers the surface tension of water, which will collapse the bubble around the insect, drowning it much more quickly.  Some insects can close the spiracles and trap *some* air inside their bodies, but that oxygen won't last long.

There are many arthropods that live in the water, including some insects.  Some use the method mentioned above (trapping air around them), but many athropods do, in fact, have gills (like [crayfish](_URL_0_)).  Those with gills have the same problem in reverse - gills are poorly adapted to exchanging gasses without water, so they suffocate out of water.

Edit: several comments have mentioned book lungs. They are organs that many arachnids have, which are unrelated to true lungs like ours, but do a similar thing. Those species can drown in very little water if the cavity that holds the book lungs (which should be empty) fills with water.

Another point I glossed over is the gas exchange between the bubble and water when insects are submerged. Depending on the surface area of the bubble and how much oxygen is in the water, the bug may be able to stay submerged forever, since oxygen and CO2 will dissolve across the bubble's surface into and out of the surrounding water.

Thanks, /u/Pr00Dg for the gold!

Question: How can a dollar of subsidy create more than a dollar of GDP?
Answer: The 5 year old answer would be

The simplest way to think of it is let's say you give a company a dollar to buy wood. They buy a dollar worth of wood and then make it into a statue. They then sell that statue for two dollars. Technically that one dollar of subsidy was used to make 2 dollar of GDP.

The more complicated answer if you actually have to tax subsidies into effect when your calculating GDP. But if these subsidies have a high ROR then it's possible to get more money then you put in.

Question: Does anyone want to explain the Bohr Model of Hydrogen atom to me?
Answer: De Broglie, a physicist from France, ~~had just discovered~~ was about to discover (thanks /u/restricteddata) that particles can be described as waves. The wavelength of a particle is λ=h/p  where p is the momentum and h the Plack constant. 

Bohr proposed that electrons orbit the nucleus. But he furthermore proposed, that the matter wave of the electron around the nucleus had to be a standing wave. That means, the circumference of the orbit had to match the wavelength of the particle multiplied by a whole number like [this](_URL_0_). (Instead of the wavelength not matching up with its initial starting position after one orbit.)

However, this meant, that electrons could not orbit at any arbitrary distance from the nucleus. Rather only distances where this criterion was fulfilled are possible. This is the origin of the discrete Bohr radii and Bohr energy levels. 

Since the nucleus attracts the electron, it takes energy to lift it into a higher radius. Thus, we can assign energy to each of the possible radii. The SI unit of energy is Joule, so you can describe any given possible orbit by its energy in Joules. 

eV or electron Volts are just another unit for energy. 1 eV is equal to 1.60218*10^-19 Joules. It is sometimes more useful to use eV instead of Joules, simply because eV are much smaller units. And in particle physics we typically deal with tiny chunks of energy.

Question: What do bears do while they're hibernating?
Answer: They sleep, and that's it.  They live off fat stores, just like you've heard, and they also convert that fat in to water. Hibernating mothers can even produce milk for their young from those fat stores.

They don't pee, their body converts their urine in to proteins, IIRC. They develop a [natural fecal plug]
(_URL_0_) that keeps them from shitting themselves.  (*Edit* - *to flesh this comment out some: the plugs are made from partially digested brush, and whatever they clean off of themselves while grooming - even bits of the pads of their paws*)

Question: What makes UNIX/Linux more stable and secure than Windows?
Answer: In UNIX/linux, the default security model has always been that normal users cannot mess with the system configuration. In windows, the default security model has long been that any user could do anything they desired to the system, and had access to all critical system configuration and other resources. Admittedly, this has  changed in recent Windows versions, and the reputation continues.

A second point of stability is that in UNIX/linux, the operating system and the graphical desktop are two completely separated systems. To the operating system, X (the window system of linux) is just another application running in user space. If X behaves badly, a sysadmin can kill it and restart it without having to reboot the system. In Windows, the graphical shell is integrated very closely with the operating system and run with admin privilege. This means that anything going wrong in the graphical shell has the ability to bring the whole system to a screeching halt, requiring a reboot.

Yet another consideration. UNIX/linux has traditionally been developed as a community effort (open source) and usually by people who knew what they were doing, because the roots of both the linux kernel and GNU lie in academia where the brightest minds competed for karma and not for money. Linux being open source means that the community as a whole is well equipped to research any bugs or strange behaviour encountered in the usage of it. In contrast, Windows has been developed traditionally by wage slaves and with the specific purpose to make money from it. It is closed source, and many of the techniques and protocols it uses are proprietary, meaning that if something goes wrong, you are unable to investigate and must rely on Microsoft to fix things. In general, the solutions and enhancements for Windows are decided from a cost/gain point of view, while solutions and enhancements in UNIX/linux tend to be chosen on the basis of technical excellence.

Question: SoFlo vs H3 H3 Productions
Answer: H3h3 is a channel that calls people out on their shit, soflo doesn't like getting called out on his shit. Idk the details, and idc.

Question: Where do the guys who sell oranges or flowers on the side of the road get their supply?
Answer: My father used to sell fruit and vegetables like this when he was laid off from his regular (seasonal) work. He would often go to the same distributors as the local grocery stores, buy at wholesale and almost double the price. He could still sell for less than the regular retailers, sometimes 1/2 of their price, because he had few overhead costs.  

During school breaks, I would sometimes be the guy at the roadside stand, while Dad went off to sell door-to-door.  

I've often seen articles saying that the grocery business is very competitive and that the margins are razor-thin. However, from what I've seen, this isn't always true. During some times of the year, the prices from farmers are very low, but the prices don't come down as much at the retail stores.  

Dad was big-rig driver so, if he had access to a truck during the harvest season when farm-gate prices were lowest, he might drive to a farming region and bring back a big truckload to our city for higher profits. This wouldn't be worthwhile using a small vehicle or at other times of the year.

Question: Why can't Social Security Numbers be like credit card numbers where they get renewed (new number) every couple of years and if they get lost or stolen the old number can be cancelled and you get a new number?
Answer: The problem is that your Social Security Number is widely used as a *unique identifier* for a person.  The whole reason it's worth stealing is because everyone uses the same number to reference a person.

If you just get a new number every few years, it'd either be worthless for a credit report **or** somebody would just have a list of all your previous SSNs matched up against your current one and you'd have to tell everyone who uses it to update to your new number anyways.

The fundamental issue is that the SSN was never intended to be a general purpose citizen identification number, it was just meant to be used for a single government program.  Security was never even a concern in designing the system.  If you want a safe  &  secure system for identifying a person, you'd need to approach the problem completely differently.

Question: Why does shutting your eyes when standing on one leg make you lose balance?
Answer: Balance is based on your centre of mass and many senses communicating in the brain. While you might think that your eyes have nothing to do with this, your vision helps the brain understand what position your body is relative to the world around you.

When you close your eyes, your brain loses that sense of relativity, and can no longer base the bodies slight adjustments based on the relativity contributed from your vision.

The adjustments your body has to make is based upon where your centre of mass is situated. Your centre of mass has to be above the contact point between (for example) your foot and the floor. There are much more to know about balance (like how to influence the centre of mass or how to calculate it), but this is the basics!

Question: How do some insects survive high velocity impact during flight without immediate fatalities?
Answer: A beetle's body does not have too much mass, and the velocity of the beetle is not too high either. Therefore, the momentum of the impact is not enough to cause significant damage to the beetle. Velocity X Mass = Momentum. If the mass or velocity of the beetle was increased, damage to the beetle is more likely to occur.

Question: How is it possible for the universe to have no starting point or end?
Answer: "The universe is under no obligation to make sense to you." -NDT

Question: in the year 1AD, what year did people of that year say it was?
Answer: There have always been a variety of calendars in use at any given time. (Also, Jesus was probably not born in 1 AD, but a few years before.)

----

*In Rome:*
At the time, the Roman calendar in use was the Julian calendar, which resembled the modern calendar for its months. The year dating was named after the last set of consuls of Rome to take office; consuls were basically a pair of people who acted as the Republic's chief executive together for a year. 

Whenever there was an interruption in the selection of consuls, then they started counting from when the last set had been chosen. At 1 AD, it was the year of C. Iulius Caesar* and L. Aemilius Paullus. Consuls had less power, but still existed for a while, in the Empire. After several centuries (around 500 or so AD) the only consuls were the Emperors, so the year dating was calculated since the current Emperor was throned. Rome had been an empire for a few decades by 1 AD.

Under the Roman Republic, there was an alternative numbering scheme that counted back to the mythical founding of Rome, but I don't know if that numbering scheme was still in use by the time of the Empire. (AUC, Ab Urbe Condite; it would have been 754 AUC). 

^^^* ^^^He ^^^was ^^^named ^^^after ^^^the ^^^famous ^^^Iulius ^^^Caesar, ^^^but ^^^is ^^^not ^^^the ^^^one ^^^you're ^^^thinking ^^^of, ^^^probably.

----

*In China:*
At that time (as well as most of the countries it dominated), they counted their years based on eras declared by Emperors. Prior to that, they also had dated their years based on the years since a given Emperor took the throne. It looks like it would have been the first year of Emperor Ping, though as he was a child Emperor, he may not have declared an era at all. So I can't say for sure. Some Emperors declared an era every year, and I'd need to look at a specialized source to find out.

----

Dating since a monarch took the throne was a very common thing, and spiritually sort of persists in the AD/BC numbering system; AD literally means "In the Year of Our Lord (Jesus Christ)". It was created in the 500s, but not widely adopted until the 800s.

Many other calendars were in effect and counting at this time and I'm too lazy to find out all of them. If you want to know for a specific civilization, though, I can find out.

Question: Why Valve aren't in trouble over Dota 2
Answer: DOTA doesn't actually belong to blizzard, it was a custom map made by ice frog, this person owns all of it apart form the fact that if blizzard never made warcraft 3 it wouldn't exist. so valve then hired ice frog(that owns all of DOTA to make a sequel under valve.

source: _URL_0_

Question: How time was invented?
Answer: Did we invent distances? or did we just invent ways to measure them and units to count them?

Same goes with time. Clocks have existed for several thousand years (many civilizations had them as early as 2,000BC, in the form of water clocks and sundials). The passing of seasons has also been observed and measured for about as long.

Question: Why can we get sick of what we're currently eating but able to then eat a bunch of different things until full?
Answer: Same reason you like to play more than one game in a day - your taste buds get bored. You like different flavors because it's your brain's way of tricking you into eating a balanced diet.

Question: Is it true that disproportionally large numbers of Syrian refugees in Europe are young men? If so, why is this? Where are all the women and children?
Answer: They are waiting for the man to get asylum/resident permit, so that they can safely travel. 

Basically the guy risks his life going with human smugglers and once he lands on his feet he can bring the children and wife to the new country through lawful means.

Question: Why is it that, in most major sports leagues, some teams will represent whole states(ex. Utah Jazz) while others will simply represent cities(Ex Cleveland Cavaliers)
Answer: It depends on the owner, and it usually done for marketing reasons.  The owner chooses a name they think will resonate better with the potential customers (fans).  In the case of the Jazz, the Utah Jazz sounds better than the Salt Lake City Jazz (that's a mouthful).  The NFL Panthers and the NHL Hurricanes are from Carolina.  Having the team named *Carolina* gathers fans from both North and South Carolina.  Also, in the case of the Hurricanes, I don't think many people know where Raleigh is, so saying they are from Carolina makes it easier to know where they are from.  The NFL Jets and Giants are teams from New Jersey, but are named after New York because New York is a more popular spot.

Question: Why do we heal quicker over a night's sleep than awake?
Answer: When you sleep, you're lying in one position pretty much motionless for 5-9 hours.  Your body is using very little energy on your muscles or other activities, so it can devote itself to healing.  And with no motion, there's no risk of further aggravating your injuries.

Theoretically you would get the same healing effect if you spent eight hours lying in bed awake watching TV.  But you would really have to stay *in bed* for all that time - no getting up to get a drink, or go to the bathroom, or anything.

Question: With the recent information on Session's on Russia, why do we have to wait for him to resign? Can't we just go after him for treason or whatever and give him the harshest punishment for lying under oath?
Answer: Resignation is the preferred method because it's the quickest and least politically messy.  

With a refusal to resign, a formal impeachment process would have to be initiated in the House of Representatives, beginning with a Judiciary Committee investigation, articles of impeachment being voted upon and presented to the House as a whole, their approval leading to sending them to the Senate for trial, and then the Senate would have to convict on the articles of impeachment to remove the official from office.

There is also a danger that a complicit President could pardon an impeached official to avoid what might be uncovered in an investigation, so legislators may prefer to avoid that danger altogether by having an official resign voluntarily and preserve the possibility of future prosecution.

Question: Why do some cars keep headlights on for a few minutes when the car shuts off? What is the point?
Answer: It's to allow you to see your surroundings.  For instance, so you can see the inside of your garage garage at night without having to fumble around in the dark for a light switch.

Question: Do gas pumps really measure dispensed gas to the thousandths? And if so, how?
Answer: Gas, fuel, diesel etc is typically measured using a special flowmeter called a turbine meter. Basically, the fuel is pumped through the turbine meter on the way to the nozzle. The turbine meter contains funnily enough a turbine which spins as the fluid passes through it. The spinning spindle of the meter has magnets on the shaft which trigger pickups on the outside of the meter which allows the number of rotations of the turbine to be counted. The turbine meter is carefully calibrated so the amount of fuel per revolution is known and thus the amount of fuel passing through the meter can be calculated.

The meters can be extremely small so the volume of fuel per revolution is extremely low allowing for very high accuracy.

Question: Why do 'modern' flags tend to have stars?
Answer: First of all, that cross is only for Scandinavian countries. Look at the flags of Germany, Austria, France, Italy, Belgium, Poland, Hungary, Spain,...

And many of those flags are more modern than others. The star spangled spangled banner was made in the 1770 or something. The German flag of today was made in 1945...

The stars of Australia and NZ are there, because those stars are only visible from those countries.

But normally, **the stars are a sign of excellence and perfection.**

Question: How do poor/third world countries support such high populations?
Answer: >  Is the standard of living so low that everybody can just barely get by?

This. Not only that, but in many places, people DON'T actually get by. People starve to death every day on this earth.

The fact is, many of these countries CAN'T sustain the population growth that they have.

Question: What is steampunk?
Answer: It substantially involves combining modern(and even futuristic) technology with the Victorian aesthetic. 

What if they had rayguns in 1880, what would they look like? What would computers be like? What would modern jets be like?

It draws heavily on the writing of people like Jules Verne. 

Most modern things have eschewed artistic beauty in favour of practicality. The Victorian era was a time when both practicality *and* beauty were celebrated. Let me give you an example, this picture:

_URL_0_

It was officially opened in 1865. When you look at that photo, what do you see?

I see the most spectacular and beautiful iron work. It looks like the entrance to a majestic cathedral. But it's not a cathedral. The Crossness Pumping Station was built, as the name implies, to pump. It did not pump just anything, however. It pumped sewage. That's right, this magnificent, majestic, stunningly beautiful ironwork adorns a sewage pumping plant!

Today, naming a sewage plant after a ruler is seen as an insult. The four engines at Crossness are named the Prince Consort, Victoria, Albert Edward and Alexandria. Those names were seen as honouring those in power, not insulting them. 

There is something deeply satisfying about doing things this way, and I think that is perhaps steampunk's greatest appeal.

Question: Why does the camera pan to Dikembe Mutombo when a suns player makes a block?
Answer: Because while he was in the NBA, he used wave his finger after he blocked shots.

_URL_0_

Question: Why do non-hearing people sound "that way" when they speak?
Answer: They can see how lips move, but they can't see how throat, tongue, windpipe, etc move. Observing mouth movement is not enough to recreate all the sounds, you need to be able to hear it in order to accurately replicate what others are saying. Not to mention you can't get the tone or pacing correctly either by just looking at mouth movement. In addition some of them can't hear their own voice either, which makes it even harder to know if they pronounce something correctly or not.

Question: How do you text in Chinese?
Answer: Pinyin and knowing the tones. 

Chinese has a writing script based on roman alphabet which is what kids and beginners use when first learning the language. This is called pinyin. This is basically the phonetic transcription of the language. 

There are then 4 corresponding tones in Chinese. Flat (1), Rising (2), Falling-Rising (3) and Falling (4). 

The word 'train-station' in Mandarin is huǒchēzhàn. So you type it out like that but add the tones by adding a number after the corresponding character. (But not every character has a tone.)

So huǒchēzhàn would be huo3che1zhan4 and this would type out as 火车站

Question: When we become overly emotional our chests/throats tighten up, why?
Answer: We’re not totally sure, but this article gives some suggestions:

_URL_0_

But how do emotions trigger physical sensations? Scientists do not know, but recently pain researchers uncovered a possible pathway from mind to body. According to a 2009 study from the University of Arizona and the University of Maryland, activity in a brain region that regulates emotional reactions called the anterior cingulate cortex helps to explain how an emotional insult can trigger a biological cascade. During a particularly stressful experience, the anterior cingulate cortex may respond by increasing the activity of the vagus nerve—the nerve that starts in the brain stem and connects to the neck, chest and abdomen. When the vagus nerve is overstimulated, it can cause pain and nausea.

Question: How come some people claim to only care about personalities and not physical properties yet aren't bisexual?
Answer: Because this is a lie mostly, its just more of a statement of 
Personality  >  Looks, so even if they look like crap they wont date them its just lower standards than average, no one actually completely doesnt care about looks

Question: What is the definition of a moral absolute?
Answer: Metaethicist here!

Moral absolutism the view that certain actions are absolutely, categorically right or wrong regardless of any circumstance - even intentions or consequences. So for example, if I thought murder was absolutely wrong then it would be wrong in any form - capital punishment, euthanasia... etc. 

The existence of any moral absolute is very questionable, and a very big question at that! If you're interested in the existence of objective morality - or the existence of morality in general - a good place to start would be either the metaethics subreddit or [here!](_URL_1_). 

If you think objective moral facts exist, then check out [moral realism](_URL_0_).

Question: What actual crimes did the "villians" from Scooby Doo commit? What could they be tried for and what would be their punishment?
Answer: Generally harassment, theft, fraud, and trespassing. Realistically you could add attempt at murder and kidnapping to most of the monster charges, because of what they general do to the mystery crew. Also in a lot of places wearing masks for nonreligious or holiday reasons in public is a findable offence, but that is very dependent on location.

Question: Why everyone hates Bono
Answer: Because everytime he claps his hands, a child in Africa dies.

Question: Before I put my contacts on I almost mistaked a white "push" thumb tack for the vitamin I had set out last night... What would happen if someone swallowed a thumb tack or nail? Would it pass regularly, or shred your insides during digestion?
Answer: I doubt it's large enough to cause any harm.

Question: The difference between Subvocalization (inner monologue) and "thinking"
Answer: They're the same thing from my understanding. I believe it's more commonly referred to as 'inner speech' when we're thinking, and 'subvocalization' when we're reading, but subvocalization is what we do whenever we hear a voice in our head, whether its reading or thinking.

Auditory hallucinations actually cause movement in the larynx, too, just like thinking. Born-deaf people have a visual inner-voice. They think in images, like seeing sign-language, or visualize lips moving, instead of hearing a voice in their heads. I believe deaf people who have learned how to talk can 'hear' a voice (mimic the throat movements), and their inner voice may switch between speech and visualization depending on how they're communicating, much like bilingual people. 

If reading books feels more like a movie to you, its because you're visualizing, rather than subvocalizing what you're reading. According to Wikipedia 30% of people primarily think visually, 25% primarily in words, and 45% use both.

Question: Why is backwards video understandable while backwards audio is incomprehensible?
Answer: It is because in a video we can see the actions leading up and proceeding from that action, while audio, the sound is laid out in a very specific way. (English phonetics are very complicated) When a small thing is changed, it becomes nearly impossible to understand.

Question: How can you have a hologram on a spinning surface? Example is in comments.
Answer: Ok, so these particular kinds of holograms are called "Scratch holograms" or "abrasion holograph" I believe.

And they're made by putting curved scratches in glossy plastic.

You can easily make your own with a two needle compass, and some softish glossy plastic.
[Here's an example of making a simple one.](_URL_0_)

The way it works is that when you put a circular scratch in glossy plastic in direct sunlight, there will be two points of light created where the sunlight strikes the curve just right, and theses points of light are always opposite each other on the scratch, and they change angle based on the angling of the plate of plastic.

With the right pattern of scratching, you can generate a system off moving points of light that mimics the effect of a 3D object.

[Here's a lecture video discussing the process more.](_URL_1_)

Question: what is the point of the 9/10's of a penny on gas prices?
Answer: They are not the same. $4.999 != $5.000 -- even though you don't have a coin to represent the difference, there is a difference.

9/10ths of a cent adds up to some real money over thousands and thousands of gallons of gasoline.

Question: How likely could a baby or young child survive from e.g. the 10th floor of a building in an emergency situation if wrapped in thick layers of towels, blankets, and duvets, and the "ball" was somehow wrapped together with rope/belts/etc?
Answer: How thick are the blanks around the baby I'll guess you used every duvet in your house so 12 -16 inches thick below the baby. The younger the baby the better as the lighter the baby the better the blankets will do. If the baby on its back not head or feet first lands on the thickest part of the blankets on soft soil not hard packed or concrete then I would say the baby will live probably injured though.

Question: What did people use before lip balm?
Answer: People used goose or other animal fats on their lips and faces, especially in cold areas to protect against windburn and cold, dry air. Also, beeswax and oil. The Burt's Beeswax brand that I use now is essentially just that.

Question: Why can we make fun of Muslims under freedom of expression but speaking anything against Jews will bring up Anti-Semitism?
Answer: i don't know where you live, but in most countries you can easily make jokes about Jews without bringing up antisemitism.

from the other hand in many countries you can't make jokes about Holocaust.

Question: How come solid butter doesn't taste salty?
Answer: It likely isn't salted.

Butter is sold in both salted and unsalted forms.  The salted form, well, tastes salty.  The unsalted form, obviously not.

On the other hand, it may be that you consume a high-salt diet and have become less sensitive to salt.  In this case, you may not pick up on the salt in salted solid butter.

Question: Why is it that some people need to adjust their sitting posture every 2 minutes but some people can sit in the same posture for one hour?
Answer: I was actually thinking about this the other day because I'm the kind of person seems to never get comfortable. I found out if you stretch and loosen up your muscles you'll have an easier time sitting still or even falling asleep at night.

Question: - Why isn't there a universal currency
Answer: To allow different economies and their respective government bodies to inflate and deflate their individual currencies.

On a macroeconomic level, this allows for proactive monetary policy that can curb the effects of a stagnating or expanding economy.

If the world operated on the same currency...well, just look at Greece. It can't print more money and bail itself out because the central euro bank (ie rich Western European countries) don't want the euro to drop in value.

Question: What is String Theory? Has it been proved wrong? Whats the current replacement theory/idea?
Answer: There are four fundamental forces in the universe, gravity, the electromagnetic force, the strong force, and the weak force.   We can describe so of these forces with two models, general relativity can be used to explain gravity, while the standard model explains the three remaining forces.  These theories are immensely successful, however they are both incomplete, and we would like to have one theory which explains all for forces. 

 Actually combining these forces turns out to be really difficult.  For one thing, gravity is incredibly weak compared to the other forces and we have no clue why.  Another problem is that if we attempt to describe gravity using the same math as we do for the other three forces we end up with a theory which isn't predictive.  We want theories to be able to make predictions, so if a theory isn't predictive this is a pretty big problem.   

String theory is one way of having a theory which explains all four forces.   However, it's incredibly mathematically complex, and so far we don't have any way to test it using current technologies.

Question: Can ducks count?
Answer: They can't *count* as in 1, 2, 3, 4... their counting skills aren't that advanced. But they do understand that if they had 10 ducklings following them before, and only 6 now, they need to find the rest. Plus, their animal maternal instinct and social abilities are involved, it's not just about counting.


Research shows that many birds have limited counting abilities, varying from species to species. Ducks are more basic in their counting, whereas crows, for example, are more advanced.

Question: How do different accents of the same language develop? How come in the US, for example, there's such a drastic difference between the South, New York/Jersey/Boston, and the "no accents" of the Southwest/West?
Answer: Language gradually changes over time as people start developing slang and shortening words.  It's facilitated by distance and ease of travel as other languages influence it.  So in early America, you saw different cities developing with travel being difficult, resulting in different dialects.  A great example of this is actually France and Quebec.  Quebec was completely disconnected from France and as a result they speak who entirely different versions of what was the same French.

Question: How did the U.S manage to (mostly) eliminate the intense corruption common at various points in the 19th century?
Answer: Well I'm no expert on it, but my personal theory, derived after a grueling 30 second debate with myself, states that "when democracy works correctly corruption is stamped out by the people". Thomas Jefferson said, and I'm paraphrasing slightly, "There are two boxes with which to change the way a governing body works. The ballot box and the cartridge box." (The cartridge box being basically an ammo pouch) 
Thus: if you don't like that your gov't is corrupt, vote someone else into office who won't be corrupt. If they won't leave, shoot them. Or thereabouts. 

But that's just my theory.

Side note: this is (IMO) the most important reason for the second amendment. Otherwise someone could abuse the power bestowed upon them by the people by signing hundreds of tyrannical executive orders superseding congress while simultaneously working to disarm the people, ultimately making their rise to tyranny smooth sailing. Checks and balances are needed in the US gov't. The second amendment keeps all those checks and balances in place.

P.S. the above scenario is actually happening.

Hope that helped somewhat? 
Edit: Grammar fixes

Question: Why do I lose all of my tabs when Chrome crashes even though each tab is a separate process?
Answer: I have had issues with the youtube tabs crashing the entire chrome as well. 

The issue is that while each tab has its own process, they're all tied to the parent "Chrome" window process. Some bugs/crashes are so severe that they cause the main process to crash, which results in every tab going down with it.

Thankfully, Chrome is pretty good about crash recovery and usually saves tabs.

Question: How incorrectly typing in a website address takes you to those random proxy sites that advertise random things.
Answer: There's two things that can happen. First, someone may have bought the mistyped domain and put up a bunch of ads on the page, just for that case. Second, and far more annoying is that your ISP may be directing you there to get some extra profit. If you ask for a web site that doesn't exist, they're supposed to return a "doesn't exist" message. Instead, a lot of places say "sure it exists- it's the ad-filled page over here"

Question: how are competitive eaters able to eat so much?
Answer: They typically "train" for 1-2 weeks before a competition by eating a lot of low calorie food to stretch their stomach, they will eat things like oatmeal and watermelon. They also drink a lot of water.

This training also helps them get over the sick feeling you get when you're too full and helps them learn to control their gag reflex.

I think there is probably a certain amount of "natural talent" involved too. Some people can just eat more than others.

I read about a competitive eater who said she only competes around 6-8 times a year so she has plenty of the rest of her year to maintain a more healthy diet.

Question: Lost City of Atlantis
Answer: Atlantis is mentioned in two of Plato's works, Timaeus and Critias, and serves as a hubristic enemy to Plato's ideal of a perfect state. Plato's perfect state defeats Atlantis, thus proving its superiority and soon after, the gods submerge Atlantis in the sea as punishment.

Most historians and scholars dismiss Atlantis as pure fiction, entirely made up by Plato, however others have searched for possible kingdoms that Plato might have drawn inspiration from. One of the most convincing locations is Santorini, which was almost entirely sunk by a volcanic eruption.

Question: Why do people have to wipe their butts but animals don't?
Answer: I know the answer to this from the last time I saw it posted.. Animals prolapse their cinnamon star when pooping, which means the poopy part retracts right back in so no mess!

Question: How does soap clean stuff?
Answer: Soap acts as an emulsifier. An emulsifier is an agent that allows the mixture of oil and water. So the dirty oils on your skin mix with the water  and it is washed off.

Question: If I lift a pile of book and carry it towards another table, is work being done on the books?
Answer: Yes- not from any force in the vertical direction unless you move the pile upwards.

The work done comes from the force x the direction of movement- meaning when you move the books horizontally work is done.

Question: What would happen if the US heavily taxed the wealthy?
Answer: The flaw in this logic is that you have to understand what happens with the money of people in the top tax brackets. People in the top tax brackets usually reinvest that money so that they can receive larger gains from that money, instead of sitting it in an account when they have no intentions of spending all of it. 

So, if (for example) I make $10 million a year, I may decide to use the first million for my regular personal expenses (say: house payment, food, travel, whatever), basically my living money. With the other money, I would want to put it into mutual funds, stocks, investments in startups, etc, so that I can earn more money off of that income. 

What happens with that money is it gets put into new small investments, or further research and development in certain industries. This helps the overall economy quite a bit.

Alternatively, if I were taxed at 70% on the income earned about the initial $1 million, I would only be left with $2.7 million to put into those types of investments. This severely stifles the market's ability to grow. It was demonstrated in the U.S. during the 50s-80s when our progressive tax system did increase to those levels. At one point the top tax bracket was taxed at 94%...

**Disclaimer:** I was simplifying the numbers here to make things easier to visualize and because there's not much difference between comparing our current tax brackets as opposed to comparing a 0% system. Just assume that I was giving an example where I didn't pay any taxes at all, vs paying 70% on all income above $1 million.

Question: Why is pizza in Northeast USA so much better than the rest of the country?
Answer: _URL_0_

If you look at the map, and know that pizza is a dish that originates in a certain boot-shaped country in the south of Europe, I think you'll find it easy to understand.

Question: Why are the bellies of starving children always heavily swollen?
Answer: It's a disease called Kwashiorkor, which is caused by a deficiency in protein intake. Sufferers are getting enough calories, but usually almost entirely in the form of carbohydrates.

_URL_0_

Question: How does a laser speed gun work to measure a car's speed?
Answer: Light moves fast. Really, really, fast. But it still has a measurable speed, so as long as your timer is quick enough all you need to do is fire a laser at something and start counting until the moment the reflected laser light comes back.

Because we know the speed of light is a constant, by counting the (very tiny) amount of time between when we fired the laser and when we get the reflection, we know how far away something is.

So that's how a laser measures *distance*. How does it measure speed?

Well it's the same idea, only instead of firing a single beam of laser light it fires lots and lots of very short pulses. Each of those will reflect off the car and reflect back, and so we can calculate the distance the car was when each one reflects back. All that's then required is to calculate how quickly that distance decreases and that's the speed of the car.

Question: PC Gaming Jargon.
Answer: FXAA and MSAA anti-alias the graphics in a game, removing the jagged edges which exist in 3D graphics. 

MSAA tells the graphics card to render the graphics at twice the size as required (e.g. if your monitor is 1920x1080 it renders at 3840x2160) then scales that image down, reducing the appearance of jagged edges.

FXAA basically just blurs the image very slightly.

Both make the graphics look less jagged, but MSAA does it better whilst needing more GPU power and FXAA does it less well but with less GPU overhead.

Anisotropoic Filtering basically improves the quality of the textures in the game by changing the way they're rendered, which compares to bilinear/trilinear filtering which just blurs the textures slightly.

Ambient Occlusion is a way of rendering light sources in a more realistic manner than is otherwise used.

Tessellation breaks the rendering down into smaller chunks, which means instead of rendering the whole thing in one burst, your card will do it in specific sections.

If you want games to look great, enable MSAA, SSAO and Anisotropoic Filtering. For faster speed, MSAA and Tessellation.

Question: If police officers are not required to tell us when they are undercover, what stops all police offers from just wearing normal clothes and always being undercover?
Answer: Why would they?

Clearly marked police presence is a crime deterrent. Very few police activities involve being sneaky and doing undercover stuff (though that's what you see on TV and the movies). A lot of what police do, like helping people, really isn't possible if you don't know who they are.

Question: Does our vision have a limit?
Answer: Can you see galaxies however many light years away?  Sure. 

You don't really see distance. You see the light particles contacting the back of your retina.  So if there's light bouncing off of the wall on the opposite side of the hallway and its been in existence long enough for the light to reach your retinas, you'll see the light. If not... you won't. 

Where vision breaks down with distance is the loss of focus and refraction as more light particles bounce and scatter the farther away you are. 

Source: I wear glasses.

Question: why do files when you change their format gets either corrupted or oftentimes changes into a different and oftentimes readable file format.
Answer: It's not so much that *changing the format* corrupts it (because the data remains unchanged). All changing the extension does is change what program your computer is going to open the file with. If you switch something to .txt, it's going to try and open it in Notepad, which can only read plain-text files. 

Now if the data within the file is stored in plain-text, Notepad will probably be able to read it. But if it's not, it'll will become gibberish like you saw.

Question: Why do we get skin tags when we're older?
Answer: At the risk of sounding young, what are skin tags?

Question: Why do magazines have pictures that cover their name/title?
Answer: Magazines know that people who really care about one particular magazine will get a subscription to it; so the cover is all about trying to influence someone at newsstands to make an impulse purchase of that particular issue and that that decision-making is largely based on who/what is on the cover.  The color, the sexiness of the cover model, and/or the celebrity on the cover all play a huge role in influencing someone to buy that issue.

Question: When a device needs multiple batteries, why do they always have to face different directions to each other?
Answer: The design of the battery holder is cheaper that way. Ultimately, the batteries always need to be end to end + near the - on the next battery. By requiring that one row faces one way and the other row the other way, one side of the battery holder can be made with a simple metal plate to connect the two halves and the output from the entire thing is at the ends of the two batteries at the other side.

If they were all facing the same direction, they would need a wire going from one end to the other to connect the two halves and would need a second wire for the other side of the output again going the whole length of it.

So the answer is opposite directions keeps the + on one row near the - on the other, which means they don't need big long wires to connect them, saving money.

Question: Why do people fear autism?
Answer: No one is afraid of it in a classic sense. 

It's like any other abnormalities, everyone wants their child to be normal. It can cause serious lasting personal issues unless treated early and properly.  

I'm not a afraid of sheep but i don't want my son to be born with a sheep's head

Question: Why is it that when you swat a fly with your hand, it either appears to be completely unharmed or it dies/becomes seriously injured?
Answer: So you swat a fly and you're wondering why its either: 

Unharmed, injured or dead? What the fuck other options are there? What would you expect to happen?

Question: Why do UK cinemas have advanced screenings instead of just releasing the film?
Answer: To get people talking and blogging (etc.) about it, and gauge the audience response.  Advanced screening audiences are generally a mix of reviewers and self-selected fans of the movie franchise who are already excited about it, or at least are in the target audience.  That's the two groups of people most likely to tell others about the movie.

^^Hello ^^to ^^Jason ^^Isaacs.

Question: Where does the dead bacteria go once you've sanitized it?
Answer: Anything that's dead is very quickly gobbled up by another living thing, such as other bacteria. When you sanitize something and then leave it exposed to the air, other bacteria from the air and the surroundings will start growing on it, using the dead bacteria as food. 

This is why hand washing is so much more effective than hand sanitizer. The sanitizer kills the bacteria, but it's all just sitting there on your hands still. Washing, even though it doesn't kill the bacteria, physically removes them and whatever grime or skin oils were on your hands, feeding the bacteria, so less of them can grow. It's like washing dishes versus baking them in the oven. Washing doesn't sanitize, but it removes all the old food. Enough heat will sanitize, but it won't remove what the bacteria were eating, so they can grow to dangerous numbers. 

Every surface, all the time, is covered in bacteria. We are not all dead because most bacteria can't cause disease, and disease-causing bacteria often need a certain amount of them to be present in order to infect people.

Question: Why Netflix would have to secure the rights to a certain song on a show they've begun streaming, when they're already paying for the show itself.
Answer: You're trying to apply common sense to music licensing.

Yes, they got the clearance for the music to be on broadcast TV. Yes, they got the clearance for it to be on the DVDs. But if those rights specifically excluded Internet streaming, then they have to change the song, unless they negotiate that clearance. And, obviously, it's cheaper to use different music.

Question: Why does the Greek language still use Greek script?
Answer: Greece predated Rome as a center of learning by many centuries. The Romans looked up to Greece as a place of culture.

Educated Romans including Julius Caesar learned Greek and spoke it with their educated friends, and young Romans went on tours in the Greek east the same that wealthy young Americans would later take the "Grand Tour" in Europe.

Even after the Romans took over, Latin was never very widespread in the Greek heartlands. The [Jireček Line](_URL_0_) roughly divides the areas of Latin and Greek speech in antiquity. South and east of there, you could get by as a Latin-speaker, but it would have been a foreign language to most common people.

The Roman empire was partitioned after 285 AD, with co-emperors in the East and West (sometimes as many as four senior and junior partners). The Western (predominantly Latin-speaking) empire grew weaker as Germanic tribes and other people invaded. 476 AD is usually given as the date that the Western empire "fell", because the warlord Odoacer deposed the last emperor (a young boy) and declined to take the title of emperor for himself.

The eastern empire, based at Constantinople, was administered in Latin for a few hundred years, but as the Latin-speaking areas began to be whittled away, the empire became predominantly Greek. That is why it's usually known as the Byzantine Empire (Byzantium was an older name for Constantinople) rather than the Eastern Roman Empire after about 600 A.D.

So to summarize, the Romans thought of Greece as a cultural forefather and preferred to learn Greek rather than force the Greeks to adopt Latin, and the Greek component of the empire lasted almost 1000 years longer than the Latin component did.

Question: How does my iPod Touch know what's plugged into it?
Answer: There's additional data sent over the headphone jack other than just audio data. A signal identifying the type of device is likely in there.

Question: How does after-hours stock trading work? How can you trade when the market's not open?
Answer: There are smaller trading platforms and you can trade among others on that platform, rather than the whole market as a whole. So if your brokerage uses one particular platform you might only be able to trade with 5 or 10% of potential traders. The smaller supply/demand pool means more volatility.

Question: What's the point of martial law, and when would it be enforced?
Answer: Martial Law is, essentially, the suspension of due process. Police are authorized to do whatever is necessary to keep the peace or to address whatever situation is found, and government, specifically the executive branch, would be allowed to basically make up new rules as they see fit.

Hopefully martial law is *never* enforced, because it's pretty terrible. The only real conceivable time it might be enforced in a modern democracy would be in the case of some disaster so major it threatens the very existence of the country: a massive invasion by a foreign power, some sort of global natural disaster...

But even then, you would hope not, because when your democracy declares martial law it's not really a democracy anymore.

Question: Counting Numbers and Numbers
Answer: Subtracting is a measure of change. So subtracting the page numbers tells you how many times the page number changed, so you have to add 1 to get the total number of pages.

Question: if picking at scabs and zits is bad, what explains the irresistible urge to do it?
Answer: The reason we have such a nagging urge is because our skin's nerves tell our brain that something is attached to us. The brain interprets this stimuli and responds by urging our hand to scratch it or get it off. The benefit to this response is that potentially harmful parasites or insects can latch on to our skin and transmit disease, so it's better to be safe than sorry.

Question: How do magnets break harddrives?
Answer: Take a piece of iron and rub it across a magnet a couple of times. You'll notice that it becomes magnetic as well. This is called "ferromagnetism."

Now imagine that you have billions of pieces of iron, each one tiny. Some are magnetized and some aren't. That's how your hard drive stores data. The 1s and 0s that make up digital data are essentially tiny chunks of ferromagnetic material on the disk in the hard drive.

If you take a magnet and wipe it across the hard drive, it will magnetize all the little pieces of ferromagnetic material, erasing any information they previously held.

Question: Why did it take up until now (this year), for something like Obergefell v. Hodges (National Gay Marriage) to happen? Why didn't a gay couple try this years ago or throughout history?
Answer: It has been tried before, but they didn't win their cases. It took until now for the opinions of the supreme court to change. 

Here is a case from 1970: _URL_0_

And from 1986:
_URL_1_

Question: How do supermarket celebrity tabloids work?
Answer: So here's the deal, if you're a big time celebrity, basically everywhere you go, photographers are going to follow you around to get pictures of you and then sell these pictures to the tabloids. The courts have ruled this is legal because celebrities are "public figures" and thus don't have the same privacy rights and ownership of their image as normal people do.

Also, yes, these magazines are all owned by the same media-entertainment conglomerates that own the reputable newspapers and the TV and radio channels and the reputable magazines and lots of the Internet too.

They're just gossip. People like to gossip, and gossip about people that everyone is familiar with (celebrities) is something you can sell to the public at large.

The way they profit is through their sales of magazines, but this isn't nearly as big a money-maker as the ads, which is where the real money is. The advertisements can be all kinds of things, but using market research, they determine just who is buying the magazines (which is usually women) and the advertisements will be for things the companies think women want to buy.

Question: Why with certain neurological diseases do hands/fingers and feet tend tu curl up?
Answer: This is caused by lack muscle control, which could mean complete relaxation or over-use of muscles.

A neutral/relaxed hand position has the fingers slightly curled (you can test this yourself). 

So if your muscles can’t get signals from the brain, curling would be the result of them being relaxed. Also, if the muscles that curl and un-curl the fingers were both trying to work at once, this might happen. Fine control of the hands requires coordination of one set of muscles tensing and the opposing muscles relaxing in order to open the hands, and especially to open them in a precise way.

Question: How does a Tornado kill you?
Answer: As the great sage and eminent drunkard Ron White put it, it's not THAT the wind is blowing, it's WHAT the wind is blowing.

Your body will become part of a random, high speed debris field.  Something WILL intersect with you.

Question: Why do some men experience a greater degree of penis shrinkage than others after exercise or due to the (cold) weather?
Answer: Genetics. Our bodies adapted to live in some pretty hostile regions over the ages of humanity. Some bodies bear the honor of having genetics where their base penile nerve has a very strong autonomic sensory recoil. It's a protection tactic. Some people's ancestors REALLY had to worry about their penis falling off from frostbite. Retraction is a way to keep everything able to stay as warm as possible.

Question: If kids are normally taller than their parents, does that mean the human population is steadily growing in average height?
Answer: Yes but no. Children are often taller than their parents because people get shorter as they age due to spinal cartilage wearing down. The average height of the population is increasing over time, but that's because height is seen as an attractive feature and more likely to be passed to future generations.

Question: Why do news anchors and radio personalities talk with a strange, fake voice?
Answer: Someone asked this a while ago and I typed up this epic answer, which I'll copy and paste for you now. 

Simplest reason: Newscasters have a special voice because if they just talked like everyone else, their broadcasts wouldn't have that distinct "newscasty" feeling. It's a convention.

But where does the convention come from? One scholar who I happen to have just found out about (your timing is brilliant) says it's due to something called the Effort Code. The Effort Code basically says "The more my voice goes up and down, the more I want you to pay attention." It shows up in many parts of language -- when we want to emphasize a part of a sentence, we make the pitch of our voice change quickly, so the other person knows we want them to focus on that part. The newscaster style of speaking is characterized by a wider range of pitches than normal speech, so that you pay attention to all of it.

Now how on earth did "changing the pitch a lot" come to be associated with "pay attention!"? It comes from the idea that when you talk, your pitch is supposed to rise and fall to and from certain pitches. In fast or imprecise speech, you don't quite reach these "targets", and your pitch range ends up being not as wide. So we started associating steep rises and falls of pitch with putting in more effort, which we associated with a higher level of importance, and the rest is history.

Source: Phonology of Tone and Intonation, by Carlos Gussenhoven

Question: How is it that people (general, public, politicians, scientists) deny climate change?
Answer: There really are two parts to the global warming model: First that CO2 (and other gasses) directly cause warming through the greenhouse effect. Second, through positive feedbacks, this warming is magnified several times to reach dangerous amounts of warming. The first part really is uncontroversial, it's easily tested through experiments, and looks to be around 0.5-1.5 C per doubling of CO2. The second part, however, is *not* well tested, it's based on theory and statistical models and is required to reach the dangerous levels scientists warn us of.

Skeptical scientists aren't convinced of the second part of the theory for a couple reasons: First, systems dominated by positive feedbacks are *always* unstable. Positive feedbacks are like a marble on top of a hill, a little nudge and the marble ends up at the bottom. Second, the models and statistics used to develop the theory are far from ironclad evidence of anything. The models require scientists to make guesses and assumptions about different parameters and how they relate to each other, does a have a linear or exponential relationship with b? Does c have a strong or a weak impact on d? Relatively small changes in those assumptions and guesses lead to big changes in the outcome of the model. (Note that this isn't limited to climate science. Macroeconomics, for example, has much the same problem and there is robust debate in the field about which assumptions are correct.)

For politicians and the general public, a lot of the issue isn't with climate change itself, it's with the policies that are being pushed to deal with climate change. However, the rhetoric around the issue has become "Since climate change is happening, we must do  < policy >  to deal with it." But, there's always going to be legitimate debate over policy choices because there are always tradeoffs required: If we stopped using fossil fuels completely energy would become much more expensive and that would hurt people. So, there's legitimate debate over whether the downsides of different policies balance out their benefits.

However, it's hard to explain cost benefit analysis over multiple policies with decades' long timeframes, *especially* when the costs and benefits are very uncertain. (Remember what I said about the problems with macroeconomic models?) So, politicians being politicians, some of them took the easy way out and instead of arguing policy simply argue against climate change as an easy proxy: If climate change = policy, then naturally !climate change = !policy, amiright?

Question: The sharp divide in America between the Christian message (love and peace for all, blessed are the meek) and the Christian practice (hatred of immigrants, ultra-wealthy preachers)?
Answer: People are often hypocrites, no matter what they profess to believe in. Christians no more so than anyone else.

FWIW, ultra-wealthy preachers are an exception, most clergy live modestly. Any many Christian organizations and believers actively work to support immigrants.

Question: The arguments now being made AGAINST Kony 2012/Invisible Children
Answer: Toppling a leader does not resolve the underlying issue (and has the potential to lead to greater turmoil - known evil of Kony vs. unknown evil of the next person to step up).

EDIT: For [this link](_URL_0_) to Visible Children.

Question: How does dumping a bucket of water on your head help the ALS cause?
Answer: It's a combination awareness/donation drive.

"Dude, why the hell did you just dump a bucket of icewater on your head!?"

"For ALS."

"What's ALS?"

"The reason Steven Hawking's paralyzed."

"Oh, that thing.  Yeah, that sucks."

"Yes it does.  Wanna donate for a cure?  If not, you've gotta dump a bucket on your head too."

"Well, OK.  Sounds like a good cause."

Question: How does something like "one meter," "one foot," or "one second" become precisely standardized around the world?
Answer: Metric measurements are defined very specifically by the [International System of Units.](_URL_0_) Before they were founded, many countries had organisations for the purpose of managing measurements. They often did this by having an object that would be the basis of that measurement (eg. a rod that would be exactly a metre long, or a weight that was exactly a kilogram) that would be distributed to other countries that agreed to adopt those measurements.

That said, often many countries didn't have standardised measures (eg. the French foot was longer than the English foot, part of the reason people believed Napoleon to be short).

These days, the International System of Units defines their [base units](_URL_1_) which can be used to derive other measurements based on measurable events. For example, a metre is the distance travelled by light in a vacuum in 1 299792458th of a second,  &  a second is how long it takes for a caesium 133 atom to transition between 2 particular states 9192631770 times. Since these are very precise events, it means that a metre will be the same length all over the world.

Question: Why can young kids practically abuse my dog and he doesn't give a shit, but as soon as an adult looks at him wrong he barks?
Answer: domestic dogs are social animals, like humans, because we have selectively bred the most social dogs over the course of thousands of years.

However, this selection has been so successful that dogs are not just social with themselves, they also include humans in that social sphere. This means that when a dog sees a child, it doesn't see a small adult human, it sees a puppy in human form. The dog can recognise that a child is a baby human, not just one that happens to be small.

NOW, the dog will automatically place itself somewhere in what it sees as the house hierarchy. This is where how the dog is raised becomes really important. If the dog is raised with love and kindness and given treats and not treated badly then he will see his family like a cooperative pack. The dog will generally be friendly, loyal, happy and confident and they will generally let kids get away with the same goofiness that puppies get away with. 

On the other hand, if the dog is raised with violence, anger and intimidation, you will find an anxious animal that sees its family as a competitive pack ... and children better watch themselves. 

TL;DR - a dog in a loving family will be tolerant of kids and protective of the property, a dog raised in an abusive family is more likely to snap or be afraid of strangers.

source - pure anecdote from the best dog trainer I ever met

Question: Why is internet (a direct connection) only fast enough to stream a few TV shows at once when digital TV antennas can receive hundreds simultaneously?
Answer: Just for terminology correction. The antenna does NOT receive and do anything with the channels it hears.  IT just funnels the signal into a tuner.

The tuner, which is on a set top box or integrated into your TV can generally only deal with processing and figuring out a single tv channel at a time, not hundreds.

IT's like saying there is a hundred website on the internet you could potentially go to. However, your web browser has only one window, so you can only see one at a time.  Thats how an antenna and tuner work.

Question: Scientifically, what is happening in the body when we experience a "mini heart attack" after missing a step or any other "close call" in avoiding a potential injury?
Answer: It's a hormone called adrenaline.  Your adrenal glands, which sit on top of your kidneys, release it.  It activates your body's fight-or-flight response, which elevates your heart rate, opens up your muscular blood vessels, and in general does a bunch of things to prepare you to fight of a potential enemy or run far, far away.

Question: Why can I exhale for so much longer than I can hold my breath?
Answer: The feeling of suffocation doesn't come from lack of oxygen; it actually comes from saturation of carbon dioxide in your blood. Your body needs to breathe *out* as much as it needs to breathe *in*, so a long constant exhale mitigates both the powerful breathing stimulus and more than half of the actual physical effects of simply holding one's breath.

Question: Why do different parts of my body smell different when I sweat?
Answer: If I remember correctly, it depends on the type of sweat duct, most only release sweat, which is mostly water and therefore much less smelly, but others, especially in areas like the armpits, also release pheromones and other things that smell.

Question: What is the difference between Alternative Rock and "regular" rock music?
Answer: IMO, it has to do with how the band is promoted, where they play, and largely what their "message" might be. Counter-culture is a big aspect, and even mainstream bands can be put in this genre.

Question: why do we have capsaicin receptors on our buttholes?
Answer: > I mean I understand evolving with capsaicin receptors in our mouth because we consume food that orifice

You didn't evolve receptors to detect capsaicin. Capsaicin evolved because it irritates existing receptors in your tissues, making mammals less likely to eat the plant or its seeds.  That the receptors exist in other tissues than your mouth is immaterial to the evolution of the substance, they're in your mouth too and that's good enough for the benefit to plants. 

The plants that typically have capsaicin are typically distributed by birds, who are not sensitive to the substance and are less likely to destroy the seeds.

Question: When I buy a domain, who am I buying it from?
Answer: When you buy a domain name that doesn't previously exist, you're not buying it *from* anyone. You're paying a registrar for the right to create the domain name and have it registered to you as an individual or company.

It's not like all the possible domains are sitting in a server just waiting for someone to choose them, any more than all possible English sentences are sitting in a library waiting for someone to write them.

Question: Why are penises and vaginas considered more taboo in movies then boobs?
Answer: Sex is taboo. Penises and vaginas are actual sex organs. Just like butts, which aren't censored either, nipples/boobs are only sexual objects according to circumstance and culture.

Question: If heat rises, why does it get colder the higher up you go?
Answer: The atmosphere thins out and cannot hold the heat in. In your house, your roof acts like an impermeable atmosphere. That rule would apply even if your house was in the sky, so long as you had the heat on.

Question: Is it legal to take someone off of life support?
Answer: It is important to understand that when a person is on life support, it is usually because they are unconscious, in a coma, and will probably never wake up. 

When that happens, a guardian is appointed that makes decisions as if they were the person who was on life support. When that guardian decides to end life support, it is as if the person unplugged themselves.

Many people, myself included, have made it clear to my family and friends what I would want if that kind of situation arises. If I go into a coma, there are three people who may speak for me and all of them have the right to terminate my life support if they are told there is no chance of me waking up.


Edit- Just to be clear:

If some random person walks in and turns off someones life support and they die, that person may be tried for murder. In the US at least, if a person gets into this situation and has nobody available to be appointed for them, the state will often send a social worker to evaluate and make the decision. This is usually done after an exhaustive effort to find a family member.

Question: Why has the number of scientific breakthroughs and discoveries seemingly decreased compared to the recent past where they were made every several years or so and credited to individuals?
Answer: There is only so much out there to be discovered, and the easy things already have been discovered.

It's relatively easy to point a telescope at the sky and discover that Jupiter has moons. It's relatively hard to send probes to the moons and discover what exactly they are all made of. Projects like this  nowadays require larger groups of people contributing compared to "simpler" discoveries in the past.

A lot of the "single person" discoveries of the past have some white-washing to them as well. We may remember one person as the discoverer, when in reality there are multiple others who contributed and are forgotten. For instance, Calculus. Newton gets all the credit, but [Leibniz probably had a lot to do with things as well](_URL_1_). Or [Rosalind and others who helped figure out the structure of DNA and were not mentioned on the Nobel prize](_URL_3_).

Or take Einstein and relativity. To most people, Einstein gets all the credit, but people like [Poncaire, and Lorentz](_URL_2_) laid a lot of the groundwork.

It's also worth noting, and maybe I should have lead with this, that it's not really clear that scientific progress IS slowing down. You can see some discussion of this [here](_URL_0_).

It's always easier to look back on things and say "Aha! *That* was a giant important discovery!" Easier to fail to see the importance of things as they happen.

Question: What would happen to the economy if everyone magically acquired lots of money?
Answer: This has actually been one of the biggest disagreements in economics over the course of the 20th century, so it's a great question.

For a long time, everybody thought that "wealth is made of money", so a lot of effort was put into building national piles of gold and ensuring money was backed by piles of gold.

On that theory, if you gave everybody piles of money, everybody could buy more stuff!

But then when our global wealth outstripped all the gold in the world, some problems became clear.  We were richer than our money would allow!  Limiting the money caused economic stagnation and depression.

So then we realised that "money doesn't matter".  It's the real assets and our productivity that make our wealth and income, and all the money just helps it flow around and get stored more easily.  So sophisticated!

In this new world, if you give everybody money it doesn't change the real assets or how we work, so our wealth and income just gets split among more dollars - inflation.

Now, in the actual real world, people are a bit complicated, and when you drop ten thousand dollars in their bank account, they do different things than they would have.  They might buy a tv or pay down their mortgage or go to a bar.  

This means that in the long term, people wouldn't get richer if everybody got $10k.  Our total money can't be worth more than our real world wealth - assets, knowledge, productive potential.  But in the short term, it can really change our behaviour and do things like bring consumption temporarily forward in time for a short term "boost".

Question: why it’s good for your heart to get pumping while exercising but it’s not good when your heart beats fast from anxiety or stress.
Answer: It IS good when your heart beats faster from anxiety or stress. That is your body’s way of trying to help you prepare for and respond to stressful situations. Now PROLONGED stress and anxiety can have negative effects on all sorts of body functions (I.e. causing high blood pressure). 

An interesting topic related to this is adverse childhood experiences (aces) which kinda dives into the long term effects of a consistent fight or flight response on the body. I linked to the ted talk about it below.

_URL_0_

Question: The difference between isosmotic and isotonic.
Answer: Isotonic is the value in which a solution must have the same values as the system it is being placed in so as to not cause a ph or salinity change. For instance isotonic water has a 0.09% (sic) salinity so that it can be administered to human bodies without adverse reactions, swelling or dehydration. A solution that is isomolal is one that has 1 molar substance in 1Molar solvent ie water. Im not familiar with the term isosmotic but i would gander that it is an equilibrium through a permeable barrier with two seperate fluid types ie cytoplasm and blood plasma.

Question: Why do people face the DJ?
Answer: "Raves" have changed drastically in the last few years.  With EDM being as big as it is, they have changed from the DJ just being there for music to where the DJ is now like the lead singer of a band.  All the focus is on him/her.

When I first got into the scene it was like you're describing it.  Everybody just danced where they wanted, with whoever they wanted and the DJ just chilled in the corner throwing on track after track keeping the night going.  It was ethereal.

Now shows are just about dbags trying to get to the front and crowds mindlessly jumping around.

Question: Why do certain things "grow on you"?
Answer: Well, when you have more time to consider all the qualities of something, you have time to pick out the things you do like. 

And if you are mostly focused on the things you dislike about something, eventually you will learn to grow accustomed to these qualities and even reason them into being able to deal with them. 

This ends up leaving mostly things you can appreciate to, well, appreciate. 

Another example would be something that isn't necessarily something that makes a negative impression at first. Sometimes things are challenging to negotiate/learn/experience. A particularly difficult book, an experimental song, a particularly strong-tasting dish, a challenging idea: all of these are things that can grow on you but are difficult to fully enjoy at first not because they are perceived as bad or less-than-good by you.

Question: Why have dentists never told me to use mouthwash?
Answer: The concern is that since mouthwash is easier to use, you will use it *instead* of brushing and flossing.

With good brushing and flossing, mouthwash isn't that necessary, and mouthwash without brushing and flossing doesn't help much.

Question: why a helicopter can’t drop me on the top of Mount Everest
Answer: Because it's too high, at those altitudes the helicopters engine just cannot produce enough power , the blades also just cannot produce enough thrust , the higher the plane or helicopter flies the less thrust and power it has its called density altitude, and it's due to the fact that the higher you go the more spred out air particles become due to the fall in pressure 

So if the air is thin it's sucking in less air to the motor which produces less power and the blades have less air to push against so less thrust

Question: Why do corn ears grow silk on them, and what is the purpose of it?
Answer: Corn silks are the silky tassels running the length of an ear of corn. They serve as styles or tubes for collecting the pollen that fertilizes each seed.

Question: Why is Linux not very popular?
Answer: It is *extremely* popular. The Reddit server that sent you this block of text is a linux machine. Linux utterly dominates every market in the computer world *except for desktops*. And that is only because linux wasn't totally usable as a desktop until fairly recently, Ubuntu wasn't 100% usable and stable until around 2010, and that means that Windows and MacOS have inertia. That said, the numbers for linux desktop adoption have been rising steadily for the last decade, with a sharp uptick very recently because of the sudden availability of good games.

Question: Why is the blue ink very common for writing, but when it comes to printing, black ink is extremely common?
Answer: Blue ink is common for writing, at least partially to differentiate wet ink signatures from photocopies.

Black ink is very low cost, because everybody wants the same color.  Blue ink is problematic, as Dodger Blue isn't the same as Prussian Blue.

Question: How do passwords obtained from iBanking tokens have a timeout, when they are not wirelessly connected to the internet in real time?
Answer: They are based on an algorithm that uses a secret pre agreed key and the clock in the device. After some time has elapsed the code you have no longer matches the current time.

Question: Obama's new job plan
Answer: Any major speech like this would get a lot of coverage because the economy is a big issue right now.  The country had zero job growth in the month of August so we're hanging on the cusp of dipping into another recession.     I copied these points from [here](_URL_0_), if I have more time I will flesh them out.  Obama's goal was to come up with a plan that would appeal to both parties so the plan would get passed.  That's why you heard him say several times, "Republicans already suggested this" or "Elements of this part of the plan already work in such and such Republican state."  That also means that Democrats will be disappointed that the plan isn't progressive enough.

So basically, no one will be super happy with Obama's suggestions about the bill because neither party got everything they wanted, but as long as the plan passes, the economy will be better off.  This plan still has to be debated in both houses of Congress (where lots of amendments will be made), passed by both houses of Congress, and then signed by President Obama to become law.



1) Payroll tax cut. The central item is the payroll tax extension and expansion. Let's explain that. Normally, you would pay 6.2 percent of your wages in taxes. In 2011, you paid only 4.2 percent, thanks to a compromise reached in December. But in 2012, according to the president's plan, you would pay a tax on only 3.2 percent of your wages. That comes out to nearly a 50 percent tax cut on work, worth about $1,500 per year for a typical worker.


2) Incentives to hire. The president: "Small businesses will get a tax cut if they hire new workers or raise workers' wages. It's a fine idea, but not revolutionary." Passed in 2010, the HIRE Act already gave tax breaks to businesses who hired previously unemployed workers 

3) A tax credit to hire the long-term unemployed. The president: "Pass this jobs bill, and companies will get a $4,000 tax credit if they hire anyone who has spent more than six months looking for a job."

4) Extending unemployment insurance for another year.

5) A tax credit to hire veterans. The president: "Pass this jobs bill, and companies will get extra tax credits if they hire America's veterans."

6) Housing help. The president: "To help responsible homeowners, we're going to work with Federal housing agencies to help more people refinance their mortgages at interest rates that are now near 4% -- a step that can put more than $2,000 a year in a family's pocket, and give a lift to an economy still burdened by the drop in housing prices."

7) Deficit Reduction through tax reform and spending reductions that include Medicare and Medicaid: The president:  "In addition to the trillion dollars of spending cuts I've already signed into law, it's a balanced plan that would reduce the deficit by making additional spending cuts; by making modest adjustments to health care programs like Medicare and Medicaid; and by reforming our tax code in a way that asks the wealthiest Americans and biggest corporations to pay their fair share. What's more, the spending cuts wouldn't happen so abruptly that they'd be a drag on our economy, or prevent us from helping small business and middle-class families get back on their feet right away."

Question: Did those mentioned in the Panama Papers perform illegal actions?
Answer: Depends on the country's laws, but the whole point was that they were exploiting loopholes. As in, they followed the letter of the law, but not the spirit. The money they made was intended to be taxed and used in other ways probably, but through a proper but legitimate misunderstanding of the law, they were able to do this.

Question: Blackholes
Answer: Black holes are actually just really massive objects.  they work for the same reason that when you throw something up in the air, it comes back to the ground.

It's all about gravity.  Gravity works like this: the bigger something is, the more attractive force it has on another thing.

SO, say you're standing on the ground, and you throw a golf ball as high as you can in the air.  it goes up, comes down, and that's great.  Now you take something heavier than that, like a baseball and throw it as high as you can.  it goes up, but a little less high than the golf ball, and then comes back down.  Now you throw a bowling ball, something way heavier (technically way more massive), it goes up but hardly as much as either of the other two less massive items, and then comes back down.

Important detail - this same affect would happen if you were standing on the earth and kept throwing the same golf ball up in the air each time, but every time you threw it you increased the mass of the earth a little bit (therefore increasing the strength of the gravity on the golf ball).  With each throw the golf ball would go a little less high until eventually it would be as difficult as throwing a bowling ball up.

Light sort of works in this way as particles, just little balls of "light". (it's actually technically made up of waves and particles at the same time, but its easier to just think of it as particles.)

So if you have a light gun, also known as a laser, it's just a gun that's continuously shooting a ton of particles in a straight line.  if you shoot a laser straight up in the air, it's still affected by gravity, but light particles (called photons) move incredibly fast, faster than anything else in the universe that we know of.

A black hole happens when enough matter collects in one spot so that the gravity that exists there is so strong that if you were to shoot a laser while standing on the surface of this incredibly massive object, the photons would all go up a little bit and come straight back down just like the golf ball.

If you're wondering why photons can be affected by gravity (it's light right?  it doesn't have mass), you can look to Einstein for that answer.  His equation, E=MC^2 shows that E (energy) is equal to M (mass) times the constant speed of light (C) Squared.  Therefore you can always translate energy into mass, and mass back into energy, and mass always effects energy, and energy always effects mass.

So to answer your next questions:
What happens when something gets pulled in?

It simply gets added to the central object, or black hole, and increases its mass and therefore its gravitational strength.

Do they move?

Yes, just like any other physical object in the universe, black holes are made of matter, and have mass, and therefore are affected by anything else that has mass.  Side note - it is believed that there is a black hole at the center of our galaxy, and that massive object is the thing holding all the other stars (including ours) in orbit around the center, creating the Milky Way as we know it.

Can they be destroyed?
Technically no, you can't destroy matter as far as we know, you can only change its form.  So you can't send a massive nuke into a black hole and cause it to cease to exist.  Theoretically if you could find a way to dissipate the mass at the center of a black hole and spread it out, you could in essence "undo" the black hole itself, however this is physically impossible (as far as we know) because of the sheer size and mass of black holes.  Nothing can go faster than the speed of light, and light itself gets caught by black holes so I don't think destroying one would be likely, although that's a question to ask a qualified astrophysicist, not just an amateur astronomer (yours truly).

Hope that helps!

Question: Why did US decide to go for 'Presidential Republic' system instead of 'Parliamentary Republic' system ?
Answer: 1) When the US left Great Britain, the monarch still had much more power than they do now, the transition to the modern constitutional monarchy was far from complete. By leaving when they did, and then codifying it in a written constitution, they missed the ensuing European development.

2) Constitutionally, Congress is the most powerful branch of government. There has been a great deal of academic debate over the "Imperial Presidency", the extent that exists, the extent a modern President has more power than they might have been intended, the way a President can make more of less  power due to being concentrated in one person with all the symbolism they get to hold, etc.

Question: the physical difference between a video camera and a still camera. Also, how do the hybrids differ from the single task models?
Answer: There's very little difference between the two (for digital cameras). Many still photo cameras can also take video and vice versa.  The key is that to do video, the camera must be capable of moving images from the sensor to memory rapidly, and must have the memory capacity to store many frames.  
  
Some hybrids (still cameras that also shoot video) can only take relatively low frame rates, such as 15 frames per second. And some video cameras have better optics (larger lenses, etc.). But there is lots of variation.

Question: What is the origin of the "http://" before a website address, what is its purpose, and why is Wikipedia's "https://" a significant difference?
Answer: Back in the early days of the internet, you had to directly connect from computer to computer, and know the computer's exact address.  As the internet grew, some computers started acting as servers that you could access through various protocols.  You can tell a protocol is being used because there is a :// between the protocol and whatever comes after it.

One protocol is HTTP, which stands for hypertext transfer protocol.  When you connect to a server such as Reddit with HTTP, your computer is saying, "Hay, Reddit server, I'd like a webpage pls." Reddit replies, "k here's your webpage thx" and delivers the usual text/images/video/etc. that we usually expect from web pages.

There are other protocols out there besides HTTP.  For example, FTP, or file-transfer protocol, is used to directly download/upload files.  So the owner of Reddit might decide that instead of browsing to the Reddit home page, they'll use an FTP program to access Reddit's files.  Instead of seeing a pretty web page, they'll see a group of folders much like the file explorer on your home computer.  And then they can manipulate those files in much the same way, such as by replacing all the site images with lolcats.

So let's say you see a cool link on Reddit to the Mooby's Swag Shop website, and while on that website you see a REALLY COOL HAT!  Of course, you must buy it.  So you enter your credit card info, and click send.  However, you fail to notice that Mooby doesn't know what he's doing and he let you send your credit card number over the HTTP protocol.  This is unfortunate for you, because your next store neighbor Nosy Nancy has been watching all the information you transfer over HTTP, and as soon as she sees your credit card number she logs onto Amazon and goes on the shopping spree of her life.  Whoops!

What Mooby should have done is change his Swag Shop to HTTPS protocol, which stands for Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure.  With this protocol, the computer you contact gives you an encoder to scramble up your message, and it can only be decoded with the decoder kept secret on the other end (it uses a nifty mathematical trick where the encoder can encode the message, but it can't actually decode the message back without the decoder!)  This way, when you type in your credit card number and hit "send," your computer encrypts it up, sends it to the Swag Shop, and then the Swag Shop decodes it.  If Nosy Nancy listens in, all she gets is gibberish - she does not get your credit card!

It used to be the case that HTTPS was a much slower protocol than HTTP, so it was only ever used for credit cards.  But nowadays the speed has caught up, and the criminals have gotten smarter.  Many of the big companies have raised concerns about even your logins for websites being snagged by the Nosy Nancys of the world, since they could theoretically snag your username and password off Reddit and try it on every major bank's website (since at least some people will use the same combo for both.)  So in recent years Google, Firefox, and Apple have started pushing website owners to switch any page with a login screen over to HTTPS (with an eventual role of getting the entire internet to switch to HTTPS).

Also, it's important to note that there are different levels of HTTPS.  If you look to the left of the HTTPS on a given web page in your browser, you'll see a lock icon.  Clicking on that icon tells you what level of security it has.  The most basic level of security is, "This website is encrypted, but we have no idea if it's legit."  The highest level of security is, "This is a real world business that's registered in a specific country and has submitted all its paperwork to prove it's the real deal."  

For example, on this website, I can click on that icon and view the certificate to see that _URL_0_ is owned by a company called Reddit Inc., and has been verified to be the real Reddit by DigiCert Inc., but I can't see the real world owner of the company.  On the Bank of America website, I can see that it's the real Bank of America site and that it's owned by the physical Bank of America company based out of Chicago, Illinois.  Why is this important?  Well, if you're on someone's blog, just being encrypted is good enough, you don't really need to trust the person who owns the blog.  But if you're directly depositing all your paychecks into a bank account, you want to make sure you have a ton of trust that the website you do your banking on is actually owned by your bank, and not a scammer trying to get your bank account number.

TL;DR: HTTP lets you view webpages.  HTTPS lets you view webpages securely.  HTTP is becoming outdated, and you can expect to see most major sites switch to HTTPS over the next couple of years.

Question: You know that feeling when you're drinking something, and there's like a pause almost i'm not sure how to put it, a throat-cramp of sorts when it's going down your throat? Sorry if nobody knows what i'm talking about
Answer: Yes. It hurts. I think it's an air bubble so there's not room for the liquid and the bubble so it feels like a trying to swallow big lump.

Question: How do these 8/16/32/64k-demos work? how 
can you put all that information and animation in 
such a small file?
Answer: I'm ignorant of the general computery stuff involved, but it's like this: the file doesn't actually contain the stuff which is to be shown.  It contains HOW to MAKE the stuff which is to be shown.

ELI5 analogy time.  Say I want to have an awesome home video of me driving across the country.  I could get a video camera, set it up on my dashboard, and then drive across the country.  I would then have an awesome home video of driving across the country.

Say, though, I'm too lazy for that.  Instead, I print out a google maps and give that to some other sucker, make him set up a video camera, and then drive across the country.  At the end of it, I have an awesome home video of driving across the country.

These files = google maps directions.  Some other poor sucker = graphics processor.

Question: how did generals in ancient battles send commands readily and accurately I the battles?
Answer: Quite simple: they didn't. 

Commands could be given by pre-arranged signals, via drums, bugles, flags, etc. You could send a courier to deliver orders to a commander, or something similar, but getting commands delivered in a timely accurate fashion was a major issue for a lot of history. There are multiple battles and even while campaigns where failures of communication had disastrous consequences.

Question: The green frog-guy meme I keep seeing from r/The_Donald in /All
Answer: It is Donald Trump photoshopped together with the meme [Pepe](_URL_0_).

No one really has any idea why Pepe got popular in the first place, it originated on 4chan years ago and quite frankly is probably the most long lived meme in meme history. As for what it means... no one knows.

As for why it is on there, well, r/the_Donald is known to shitpost and meme a lot, while I personally do not necessarily support what they are pushing for, I have to admit, their memes are on point.

And it seems that the r/the_Donald mods have announced it is "Pepe Weekend."

Question: Since the Earth is so hospitable to life, then why isn't there multiple origins of life/ multiple coexisting trees of life?
Answer: The conditions on Earth at present are very conducive for sustaining life, but not for life to originate.

The theory of life that is well accepted is primary abiogenesis and then biogenesis ever since. The first molecules of life originated from non living substances then these living molecules started self replicating and evolving.

The most important condition required for primary abiogenesis was a reducing atmosphere. Or an atmosphere that does not have much oxygen which will oxidize the organic molecules.

Once the planktons and other small celled photosynthetic organisms evolved, they produced oxygen as a by product and slowly the atmosphere became an oxidizing atmosphere.

Once atmosphere became oxidizing, the original condition in which self replicating aggregates formed was changed. Hence now new life cannot form from non living substances when exposed to the atmosphere. But living organisms can arise from existing living organisms.

Question: How do multi-room audio systems sync music?
Answer: Imagine that you want to tell a lot of people in different places in the world to say something out loud at the exact same time.

"Exactly at noon, start the speech."

Networked audio systems work kind of the same. The control unit sends out a message to all of the sound producing devices saying "this is what I expect you to do for three seconds, starting at exactly 12:13.42." And during those three seconds, it sends another message saying "this is what I expect you to do for three seconds, starting at exactly 12:13.45". And so on.

It's really not much more difficult than that. if you can sync the time between devices (and you can easily, as /u/bazmonkey stated) you can make them work together.

My example is a bit flawed because I don't really know if they send three seconds of data in one go, but it doesn't really matter if they send half a second or ten seconds worth of information, the principle is the same.

Question: How come ICBMs can’t be shot down? Are they undetectable or are they just going to fast?
Answer: They can be shot down... sometimes. Test under ideal conditions are ok-ish at shooting down ICBMs but it's never been done during an actually attack so we don't really know how effective missile interception would be when it mattered.

Missiles are small and moving very fast. Intercepting a missile is like trying to shoot a bullet out of the air with another bullet.

Question: How do they make unique signals for car alarm/lock remotes
Answer: The "key" emits a series of timed pulses.  The car recognizes only one pattern.

Question: How do you safely get rid of nuclear waste?
Answer: Put it in strong barrels, put barrels in a cave that isn't near a water source.  Hope the barrels don't leak for many many many many many many years.

Question: What is the biological purpose of blue eyes?
Answer: Pro tip: not every trait we have had a purpose. There's no rule staring that just because something evolved, it's useful. Blue eyes are merely a mutation that wasn't detrimental enough to be selected against.

Question: how to best use my credit card to build credit.
Answer: Unless you have bad credit and are trying to turn it around as quickly as possible or if you are trying to eek out those last 5 points to put you over 800, the only thing you really need to worry about is make sure you aren't late paying your card.  It won't really hurt (or help) to carry a balance or to not carry one.  Also, it doesn't matter in the slightest how you pay your bill as long as it is credited on your account before the due date.

Question: Why does practically every website still have trouble handling high traffic volumes even when they're expecting it?
Answer: Servers have a finite amount of processing power. The only way to increase your capacity is to get MORE servers or upgrade the hardware of existing servers. This is an expensive proposition and takes work to do. It doesn't make much sense unless you're expecting to have to handle this sort of volume a lot.

Question: How are male gorillas so strong?
Answer: Animals with low-protein diets can still get bulky...this has to do with total caloric intake and the way individual species process and synthesize nutrients.

Different species are able to synthesize different nutrients themselves through cellular processes. Nutrients include carbohydrates, fats, proteins (or their building blocks, amino acids), and vitamins. This means instead of the body having to "eat" the protein containing a particular amino acid, the cell itself can make that amnio acid. This of course requires energy and work by the cell. Conversely, "a nutrient is said to be "essential" if it must be obtained from an external source, either because the organism cannot synthesize it or produces insufficient quantities". So there are two kinds of nutrients, those that we can make through our own cellular processes, and those we must obtain through our diet.

[Proteins](_URL_1_) are made up of different [amnio acids](_URL_3_). A good analogy is that a protein is like a train, and the individual cars are amnio-acids. Different combinations of cars, in different orders give different trains. In the same way, different amnio-acids, in different combinations give different kinds of proteins. Digestion, be it in animals or humans, results in the breakdown proteins into their amnio acid components. The intestine absorbs the individual amnio acids and the body ships these amnio acids to the cells. Cellular processes rearrange the amnio acids in new ways to make new proteins that are used by the animal or human for various bodily functions. So think of the cell as the railyard where new trains (proteins) are made but reassembling the cars (amnio-acids) into new and different combinations. "Proteins perform a vast array of functions within living organisms, including catalyzing metabolic reactions, replicating DNA, responding to stimuli, and transporting molecules from one location to another."  

There are [nine essential amino acids](_URL_2_) that humans must consume in their diet because our cells cannot make them through cellular processes. The rest we can make ourselves in our cells. This means that our diet must meet these minimum essential amnio acids requirements in order for us to survive. We cannot make the nine, we must consume the nine. The nine are found in all kinds of foods, from plants to meat which is why humans can have such a wide variety of diets (e.g. vegetarian, vegan, allergen-accomidating) and still function normally.

However, other animals have different essential nutritional requirements. For example, [cats, unlike humans, cannot synthesize the amino acid taurine so it must be added to their diet](_URL_0_). Some species are able to synthesize Vitamin C and do not need to consume it in their diet (e.g. mice), whereas humans cannot synthesize Vitamin C and thus are required to consume it in our diet. These differences in essential nutrient intake creates different dietary requirements for different species and results in different types of foods being consumed preferentially by different species. This is why a gorilla is able to survive and thrive just on plant material, whereas we are required to consume a more varied diet. They obtain all their unique essential nutrients from their herbivore diet.

So other species have different combinations of essential nutrients in order to sustain a balanced and healthy diet. This makes perfect sense, if all species had the exact same requirements there would be a lot of competition for the same food resources. By diversifying what is essential to consume, there is less competition. Remember that it is costly for the body to produce its own nutrients through cellular processes. It is much easier to just consume an amnio acid than produce it. Thus, if a particular amino acid or nutrient is abundant and easily available in a species environment it makes more sense for natural selection to select against the cell's producing that nutrient, and for the individual to simply consume it. For example, most primates - including humans - do not synthesize vitamin C. This makes perfect sense since vitamin C is easily acquired through our collective diets by consuming fruit. Fruit is abundant resource in most primate's environments thus vitamin C would not be hard to acquire. So each species is balancing what they need to eat, and what they can produce themselves, along with what is available to them in their environment.

Question: Current transfer
Answer: According to [Wikipedia](_URL_0_):

"Jump start procedures are usually found in the vehicle owner's manual. The recommended sequence of connections is intended to reduce the chance of accidentally shorting the good battery or igniting hydrogen gas."

Using Google search terms:  `jump start battery sequence` the top result is a Google Books of a textbook called *Automotive Electricity and Electronics* by Al Santini which states:

"Make the final connection on the discharged battery's side of the circuit.  This final connection will produce a spark.  This spark should not occur anywhere near the charged battery because the spark might cause the battery to explode."

So basically the concern is the last connection producing a spark, which you want to keep far far far away from either battery, especially the charged one.

Question: How do you use bobby pins?
Answer: Coming from someone who used to have issues myself i'll give you my best knowledge. 

Usinig the pins is pretty simple. All you have to to is take a section of hair you want to pin ad lie it flat in the direction you want it to go. Gather it into a point and plunge the pin as close to your scalp as possible. Place the pin over the point where you gathered it together.  If the pin bulges you've put too much hair in it and it won't hold. Similarly not enough hair won't keep the style. 

Sometimes you'll have to use more than just one to really hold things in place. Depending on your hair type, length and thickness a simply pinning bangs back could take several. I have thick, naturally curly hair it takes me at least two to pin the left side of my hair behind my ear. 

Keep trying to find the right balance of hair to pin and the metal can and does warp, avoiding over stuffing them helps hold your style in. All you need to do is experiment to find the looks you like best. Keep practicing and it will get easier. 

You can pin a small section underneath a large portion of hair. Simply pick up the section you want to lay over the pinned section, get as close to your scalp as you can and tightly pin another smaller section once you have your hair laying the way you want it. Flop your unpinned hair over where you can no longer see the pins to create the look of one layer under another. 

There's a ton more and I could go on forever but I don't have a good camera at the moment to do tutorials. You tube should be useful. Or I could do some for you when my ipad comes in later this week. 

Sorry if this wasn't as helpful as I hope it is, I'm waiting on the nyquil to kick in and feeling a little loopy from my terrible sinusitis I'm fighting. 

You won't like everything you try but keep experimenting and have fun.

Question: Is our moon moving away from Earth? If so, what's causing it?
Answer: The moon recedes from Earth at about 4 centimeters per year. In other words, Apollo 11 would need to travel about 2 meters (6.5 feet) farther if it were launched today.

It has to do with tides. Earth's gravity pulls on the moon, but the moon's gravity also pulls on the earth. So the moon doesn't really orbit the earth: both bodies orbit around a center of mass. This center happens to be inside the earth, but since it's not directly in the middle of the planet, Earth "bulges" as it rotates. This makes the oceans slosh around, which is what tides are. It also has the effect of slowing down the rotations of both the earth and the moon: the moon has already slowed down so much that it's "locked" with Earth...it still rotates, but at the same rate it orbits, so we always see the same side. This is happening to Earth too, but at a much slower rate.

The other effect of this tidal dance is that the moon is pulling so hard that it's pulling itself away from Earth...again, very, very slowly. It'll be a couple hundred million years before it will no longer be able to cover the sun during an eclipse. It will never break free of its orbit around Earth, however...the sun will have expanded to engulf both our planet and our moon long before then.

Question: Airport management
Answer: This varies from airport to airport, and from country to country.

In the UK, airports are all privately owned. It's down to the individual airport's management to work out a business plan, but as you suspected, this will include charging airlines to use the airport, and charging shops to operate in the airport.

At larger airports, the shops will be the biggest source of revenue. A common trick used by Ryanair (Irish low-cost airline which operates mainly out of the UK) was to go to a very small airport with few, if any, jet movements. They'd say to the airport management "we'd like to operate 6 flights a week out of your airport. Each of these will have up to 180 passengers, who are each paying for car parking and using your shops. That's a lot of extra revenue for you, so if you want that recent you'll not charge us any fees for using your nearly-dead airport, and you'll arrange cheap fuel for us. That will get your airport known, so other airlines may move in soon too."

As for gates and terminals, airlines have to appoint a "handling agent" to do this for them. Most airports have a choice of handling agents, but typically there'll be one for airlines and one or two for private flights. Smaller airports might only have one handling agent, and very small ones may handle the aircraft themselves. Check out Servisair, one of the biggest handling agents in the world, for an example.

Question: What's going on with Netflix and Verizon?
Answer: Verizon has a lot of pipes. Netflix traffic uses a large portion of those pipes, because HD video. [A US Appeals Court](_URL_0_) recently ruled that Verizon can charge Netflix more because it uses more pipes, which makes a lot of tech people upset, because it allows ISPs (the guys with the pipes) to decide what content is worth having on the internet. Verizon went into negotiations with Netflix for Netflix to pay them more, and during the negotiations, used mafia-like tactics to tank Netflix's speed to Verizon customers, as if to demonstrate what they could do to Netflix if they wanted. Netflix capitulated to Verizon's demands for more money, but retaliated by putting a message on Verizon Netflix subscriber's screens telling them every time that Verizon's network was slow enough to reduce video quality. Verizon got butthurt over this and sent a mean letter to Netflix threatening to sue for defamation.

Question: How is all the debris in space and other stuff orbiting earth not a bigger problem?
Answer: Its all super far apart and would take more resources than the objects are worth to collect them and orbital decay HAS already been calculated.

Question: Why do we have to cook things with a low flame for a long time. Why not a high flame for a short amount of time?
Answer: Large flame means high temperature. High temperature means the outer layer of food might burn before the inside has been heated up.

Low temperature takes more time, but gives you much more even cooking.

Question: Why do people like Warren Buffet continue to try and make as much money as possible, when they have so much that they could never spend it all?
Answer: When you control massive wealth you can do things nobody else can do.  You get called by Presidents and Potentates when they need help or want your opinion.  You get invited to the most interesting secret meetings where the strings that move the world are pulled.  You get a seat behind the curtain.

Being an active investor is what keeps you in that seat.  If you put your money into a passive investment vehicle and ignored it, people would ignore **you**.  Only if you're seen to be willing and able to move the kind of capital that changes markets do you get to be a real "insider".

Buffet loves being an insider (who wouldn't?)

He's also been doing it his entire life.  Clearly he loves it on some fundamental level.  He is probably really intrigued by what he sees happening over the very long term and wants to remain in a decision-making role as he watches to see if his theories about how the world works are validated or not.

Question: why do they even allow people's cars to go over 140 mph?
Answer: Consumers demand acceleration. That requires a powerful engine.

Consumers demand fuel economy. That requires a tall gear ratio that keeps a car at speed at low engine RPM, meaning it's consuming less fuel.

What happens when you combine that powerful engine at HIGH RPM with that tall gear meant for low RPM at highway speeds?

You can always install a governor on the engine to limit the speed, but it's not illegal to make a fast car, and it's not illegal to go fast, it's only illegal to exceed the speed limit on public roads. You can go as fast as you want on private property.

Question: How come you can only get bigger muscles on a calorie surplus?
Answer: Building muscles is like building a house, you need to build it out of something.  
By exercising you are giving your cells orders to build a building.  
Proteins are like the bricks for the building, the cells can just stack em together and make a building.    
You can turn other things into bricks, but that takes time and effort, it might be easier to just stack it in a corner or burn it right now. Those would be other sources of calories.  
If you're are starting out as fat, this would be like having piles of clay you stacked in a corner, send the right orders and you can turn that into muscle proteins.    

Eventually you'll run out of fat and need to get more stuff to turn in muscle.  
Thus you'll need to eat more stuff than you burn, otherwise there's nothing left over to turn into muscle.

Question: Why do we experience emotions that we consciously recognize as illogical or ridiculous?
Answer: Think of it this way. Our body has pain receptors that cause a feeling that 90% of humans hate and can't stand. Pain. They do this so that we realize we need to stop doing something that causes our bodies injury. A defense mechanism, if you will. Our brains eventually become conditioned to avoid things that cause pain because of those pain receptors. So illogical/ridiculous/ ideas or emotions or feelings are kind of similar, we have them so that we know the difference between sound reasoning and illogical reasoning, the difference between ridiculous response and proportional response. To help us better survive the world.

Question: if there is no sound in space, is there no sound in the shuttle once at a certain point above earth? Tl;dr how does sound in space work?
Answer: Sound is vibration in a fluid ( gas or liquid). In space there is no air, so sound cannot be created. In space shuttles, there is an air tank so the astronauts can breathe, and this allows them to talk.

Question: What makes something louder?
Answer: Sound is a "vibration" of the air.  The frequency of the vibration (how many times it vibrates per second) gives you the pitch of the sound.  The amplitude of the vibration (how big it vibrates) gives you loudness.

To make sound with a speaker, there is a membrane that vibrates according to an electric signal.  So let's say it vibrates 2000 times per second (this means it pushes and pulls, then repeats, 2000 times per second).  If it pushes 1/8th of an inch, you'll get a certain sound.  But if you turn up the volume, the signal is stronger and the speaker will push more, like half an inch.  Even if it still pushes 2000 times per second (so it's the same pitch), it now moves more air with each vibration, which results in a louder sound.

Question: why do people scream when they are in pain?
Answer: To warn others in the area of danger, and/or to call for help.

Which such basic instincts as these, think of stone-age hunters in the long grass, hunting gazelle and trying to avoid tigers.

Question: Wattage, voltage, amperage, and resistance
Answer: Compare it to a bus, with one elektron being a bus and the amount of people in the bus the energy that an elektron carries.

Amperage would be the amount of busses that are driving. Voltage the amount of people per bus, wattage the total amount of people transported and resistance the amount of people a bus would lose going through an area.

In more technical terms, Amperage is the amount of elektrons going through an area/point on a wire. Voltage the amount of energy that an elektron carries, Wattage the total amount of energy going through a point on a wire and resistance the amount of energy an elektron loses going through a part of a wire.

Question: How gravity works
Answer: We don't know why, but we think we do know how.

Imagine a corridor that curves gently around a corner. If you walk in a straight line down the corridor, eventually you will come in contact with the wall. If you keep walking, you will be pushed along the curved wall, making you walk in a curved path.

Gravity works a bit like that. All heavy objects, like planets, cause the space (actually, spacetime, but that's beyond an ELI5 expanation) around them to bend. Things normally move in straight lines, but when something passes through the bent space around the heavy object, instead of flying straight past, it is forced to follow the bent path, just as you are forced to follow the bend in the corridor.

This applies to all objects in the universe that have mass, but the effect is very very tiny for small things like you and me. It's only really noticeable for very heavy things like stars and planets.

Question: How do archaeologists know who a certain skeleton in a tomb is?
Answer: You know how we place tombstones on graves with inscriptions on them? They did that back in ancient times as well. Only the inscriptions were on and inside the tombs.

Question: How data from my doctor visits and prescriptions reach the macro level to improve treatments for other people in the future.
Answer: This is currently being done in the health care industry.  Health insurers have the information of what illness you have, what treatments you have received, how often you go back to be retreated, and what other symptoms you develop.   This is independent of where you get treatment. 

From millions of data points they can determine which treatments work best and which work poorly.  

Insurance carriers have a financial incentive to identify the most cost effective treatment as they are footing the bill for treatments that do not work.  

A well Known example this was in 2004 when Merck pulled Vioxx from the market based upon a study from Kaiser Permanente. - a hospital / insurance system. 

"The study, an analysis of a database of 1.4 million Kaiser Permanente members, found that those who took Vioxx were more likely to suffer a heart attack or sudden cardiac death than those who took Celebrex, Vioxx's main rival. "

Since that time most major insurance companies, health care manufacturers s and hospital systems have created departments to study this type of data.  

_URL_0_

Question: What's the difference between Muslim and Islamic?
Answer: Islam is the religion and Islamic means related to Islam. 

Muslims are worshipers of the Islam religion

So Islam would be similar to Christianity as Muslim would be similar to Christian

Question: What is an app/website doing when frozen? Is it reading through lines of code?
Answer: Generally it's a software issue. It's not "reading" the lines of code persay, but it is stuck in some sort of time-consuming process and neglecting to respond to your input in a timely manner.

The typical solution is to write code that allows these long-running tasks to be separated from the tasks that handle input and update the display, so that the application continues to respond properly when things get slow. Usually this solution is accompanied by a progress bar or spinner. However, it's not practical to do this for every single operation a program does. Sometimes, a freeze happens because the developer didn't think a particular operation would ever take a very long time, so they didn't separate it like I explained earlier.

It could be hardware-related sometimes, if a hardware glitch causes an unexpected condition that the software can't handle.

Question: How does SIDS work?
Answer: Typically, there is not anything obviously wrong physiologically with an infant who died of SIDS. That's basically part of the definition - SIDS is the diagnosis when no one can figure out a reason for the infant to have died.

The exact cause is still unknown and there might be a variety of causes. There has been a lot of speculation.

One reasonable speculation that I have read is that the part of the brain that tells you to move when you aren't getting enough oxygen isn't working properly in children who die of SIDS, so, for example, they end up with their face pressed against the mattress while sleeping, don't get enough oxygen, but don't change position the way another infant would, and smother as a result. This ties in fairly well with the fact that SIDS almost never occurs in children more than a year old - the idea being that the part of the brain in question either develops fully in that time or its function is taken over by another part of the brain.

Again, that's just a speculation that has been put forward by some members of the medical community, there is no conclusive evidence that is the actual cause of SIDS. The actual cause (or causes) is still unknown, although risk factors have been identified.

Question: How do sweets create cavities?
Answer: Sweets contain glucose and the bacteria in your mouth digest the glucose and produce acid. The acid eats through the enamel and then you get cavities.

Question: How do long term space projects (i.e. James Webb Telescope) that take decades, deal with technological advancement implementation within the time-frame of their deployment?
Answer: A bit of both. 

The key component of some things, like the lenses themselves, are pretty much "locked in" at some point. We know we can build them today, and we know we'll find a better way to build them when we actually start manufacturing them. So, how they will actually be made is up in the air but we know the size and precision needed. 

The next thing is that no one wants to send the newest tech into orbit - first generation things tend to break, and so when scientists discover some lighter than air nanomaterial, it's not about to make it into a satellite a week later. 

But in 20 years, they've definitely improved a lot. Plans would have been generally drawn up, knowing that computers would change over time, and individual components would be tested and swapped out if they can work. Each time, someone would make sure that the weight, format, reliability, and everything else will keep working as planned.

Question: Why are there so many anti-depressants on the market that aren't superior to placebos and why do doctors prescribe them?
Answer: It would be wrong to answer a medical question, but this isn't a medical question--it's a statistical question. "Proven ineffective" is a very difficult standard, which hasn't been met here. The key concept is "statistical power," which is basically the ability of a study to find a difference if it exists. This is crucial, because "failed to find a difference" is only meaningful if the study was pretty powerful. For instance, the second study on maprotiline used 58 patients, split three ways, and was complicated by a high dropout rate. Statistically, that makes it worthless. 

This is one reason why PubMed, although a vital resource to researchers, is not very helpful to most people. It tends to spit out thousands of studies in a gigantic list, without any sense of which ones matter. The studies we care about most are high-quality systematic reviews of randomized controlled trials, which pool together thousands of patients and ideally smooth out variations in study designs. Systematic reviews have confirmed that standard antidepressants do beat placebo.

It's true that antidepressants tend to offer only a modest initial advantage over placebo, at least for milder cases. With continued dosing, that gulf widens dramatically, with standard drugs cutting risk of relapse in half. As for choosing drugs, trial and error is essentially still the only approach we have. There are ongoing efforts to improve this, but research is expensive, difficult, and time-consuming. Existing research only gets you so far. 

All that said, it sounds like you don't have a really great therapeutic alliance with your psychiatrist. That's no good. If you feel this way, be clear that you're not satisfied with the amount of information and control you're getting over your care. All too often, doctors never hear what the problem was in the first place.

Question: Why it can take days for electronic bank transfer to show up or ''clear'' into bank accounts?
Answer: the banks are using the float to their advantage and ignoring your convenience.

Question: Why is it that ill have a tone in my head and then when I try and hum or sing it, it comes out completely wrong?
Answer: There's a chance you're tone deaf, but there's also a chance you'll  manage with training. Tone deafness appears to be caused by some fault in the brain (think dyslexia).

Question: How come almost everyone trusts their government blindly?
Answer: Really? Do they? Any time there is an election, people arrive in droves to either keep their party in or vote them out. Even if they get to stay in, there is still a vast number of people who voted against them. Doesn't that imply there is a huge percentage of the population who *don't* trust them? 

Also just because you've voted *for* a party, doesn't mean you trust them either!

Question: If a high protein and heavy resistance training is the key to putting on muscle, how do horses and other animals do it ?
Answer: Grain has a lot of carbs, but it also has an appreciable amount of protein. It's actually not too uncommon for human weightlifters to eat more cabs than protein, as well. Since horses evolved as herbivores, I don't know that they would be able to digest those high protein sources properly.

Also, while they aren't traditional resistance training, a lot of power can be developed by jumping and sprinting. Since horses are really heavy, a lot of muscle is required to do these things.

Question: This might be a dumb question but it just started raining, so I started thinking, why does it start raining slow then increase in speed? Like what is happening in the cloud that's different than before, or vice versa if it starts pouring like there's no tomorrow then slows down?
Answer: The cloud moves.

First, the cloud's (thinner) edge comes over you, and because it's thinner there's less rain to unload; then the bulk of the cloud, then finally the trailing edge.

Clouds are water vapor suspended in air (and so is fog), and the ability of air to keep water depends on temperature and pressure.  Air is always moving up there, and at some point the air that contains a cloud may hit colder air or different pressure air, and the cloud will start unloading.  

But it keeps moving; air keeps moving it along.

So, more rain vs. less rain depends on the thickness of the part of the cloud that happens to be passing above you at any point in time.

Question: How does charcoal mellow whiskey?
Answer: It's very similar to a Brita water filter (they use charcoal to absorb unpleasant smelling/tasting chemicals).   

Activated charcoal has enormous surface area for its weight, and it's mostly made up of carbon atoms.  Carbon adsorbs many materials quite well, but especially other carbon chemicals.  Since most of the unpleasant chemicals found in alcohol are carbon based chemicals, charcoal works very well as a filter for distilled alcoholic beverages.  

It's popular among penny pinchers to get a similar effect by running cheap vodka through a Brita filter.

Question: How does the information travel through cords to make sound on speakers?
Answer: As electrical voltages and currents. If you put a 1 kHz AC current (current that swap directions 1000 times a second) on the wire, it causes the speaker to move at 1 kHz, which causes the air to move at 1 kHz, which makes you hear a 1 kHz tone. To play more complex sounds, you just put a more complex electrical current on the wire that matches the shape of the sound.

Question: When I ssh from one computer to another, what is actually happening?
Answer: SSH is sort of a "Command/Text" version of Remote Desktop, allowing you to make a tunnel connecting to your computer, and log in to it and run commands.

After both machines connect successfully (after checking keys and identity), the sshd process on the remote computer connects to a new TTy socket, and runs whatever commands it should run (usually runs the login manager so you can connect to it). All standard output from the remote machine is transferred by the SSH server trough the tunnel onto the client and displayed to you, sort of like a terminal emulator. All standard input is sent back the same way.

Of course, since SSH transfers data between the remote and local machine, it can also act to transfer files and webpages (with an SSH tunnel).

Question: What happens if an astronaut working on the exterior of the space station happens to lose grip on whatever they're holding on to?
Answer: This is why they tether themselves.

If they were untethered and drifted out of reach of the station then not all would be lost, though.  Many EVA (extra vehicular activity) suits include small thrusters that the astronaut can use to maneuver around.  These could be used to push them back towards the ship.

Alternatively, if desperate, they could throw a tool away from the station which would push them back towards it.

If that fails then another astronaut could be sent to rescue them using a longer tether or conceivably even by taking another craft that was intended for return to the ground (this would depend on the scenario and would be a last option, but it's better than losing someone who could be saved).

Ultimately it's a much more forgiving scenario than falling just out of arm's reach when untethered on the top of a tall building that's under construction.

Question: what are the ways in which money can be pumped into the economy (by Govt.)?
Answer: Public works projects are a great tool to re-distribute money into the local economy. It uses taxpayer dollars to fund construction projects across the country. It makes the infrastructure strong as well as providing jobs and work experience to the masses. The Hoover Dam was created doing this. The good thing about this too is afterwords the work still stays around. Road improvement, building important public buildings, schools, firehouses, post offices, police stations.

Question: If "Ren and Stimpy" was geared towards adults, why was it on Nickelodeon?
Answer: Because no 'adult' stations would pick it up, so they cleaned it up (a little) and pitched it as a kids show.

I think the same thing happened with spongebob

Question: What Obama Just Said, Explained
Answer: "Our government will be spending less"

We should include here that Keynesian economics recommend *increasing* spending in a recession.  So while we will be helping lessen our debt, this might not be the best time to do so.

Question: Why is the USA the richest nation when it has over 17 trillion USD in debt
Answer: The debt of a government is nothing like the debt of an individual, and functions in importantly different ways. Debt, properly managed, is good.

The simplest example is bonds. Bonds are certificates issued by a government that read "Buy me for $1,000 and redeem me for $1,050 in 10 years." When you buy that bond, the government puts down that it got $1,000 but owes $1,050, putting it $50 in debt. But it's a good debt, because over the course of that 10 years, they can spend that $1,000 on projects that will generate far far more than $1,050 in revenue or productivity. They'll happily pay you back after 10 years and both of you will have profited from the loan. And because the US government is rated as having excellent credit, they can afford to give you a very slim margin of profit on those bonds (all investments have a risk-reward balance). The government is able to find profit in things that private business cannot, because government profits come from the overall productivity of the country and not directly from the project itself; the government can spend $5M building a public school or public hospital, and while the schools and hospitals themselves never become profitable, they increase lifespans and education which increases productivity and output which means more money which means more tax which ultimately results in revenue to pay the value of the bonds.

It's like the debt you incur when you take on student loans at a medical school: you're in debt, but it's silly to call it a bad financial decision.

Additionally, the majority of US debt is owed *to the US*. Some of the biggest buyers of bonds are US pension funds. Pension funds invest in bonds rather than letting the money sit in bank accounts because it means the money slowly grows while remaining almost as safe as it would be in an FDIC-insured bank. So being in debt to yourself isn't really a problem. If your family has $10M in wealth and you borrow $1M from your brother, the family's wealth hasn't changed.

Question: Why does mental illness seem more common today?
Answer: Because gradually people are becoming more open and accepting of discussing mental illness, so it seems more common when the general population assess their own mental state in a more open minded manner. It has always been this common, but people didn't talk about it.

Question: Some terms about sustainble development.
Answer: > Ecological footprint

How large an area you need to give humans a certain level of comfort, and still allowing the earth to regenerate. It's measured by the amount of land required to make everything you consume, as well as handling the waste. We currently use about 1.5 times the area of the world, so the earth isn't fully recuperating.

 > Ecosystems services

The jobs nature does for us. This include things like taking care of waste, cleaning water, crop pollination.

 > Resilience 

How much an ecosystem can handle. Some systems are fragile and will quickly die if the temperature changes, or a fire happens. Some will handle mostly anything.

 > Planetary boundaries 

The limits to what the earth can handle. A set of limits for temperature, acidity, bio-diversity loss, etc.

 > Tipping point

One the world reach this point changes will happen fast. The points are of course defined by the planetary boundaries.

 > Feedback effect

It get's hot, so we end up with more desert. In the desert nothing grows, so we end up less CO2 eating vegetation. There are lots of feedback effects, both good and bad (some stabilizes things decreasing the effects of change, some increase them).

 > Rebound effect

When we get get better technology, we start using it more. This is the rebound effect. E.g. we get a new motor with 5% better fuel efficiency. But since they save money on fuel, people drive more. So the reduction in fuel use is only 2%. Then we have a 60% rebound effect

 > Backfire effect

If the rebound effects are higher than 100% (the fuel efficiency goes up, but so does the fuel use) you have a backfire effect.

 > Biodiversity

The diversity of lifeforms in an area (or even in a species). It's a high diversity is a sign of a healthy system.

Question: How can blockchain technology ensure diamond authenticity / no child labour use in a product?
Answer: A blockchain is really just a way of people creating a secure series of notes about things.  It can track the history of the source of a product and ownership but that chain of ownership is meaningless if the original claim about something being "good" was made in bad faith or can't be trusted.

If you can trust Friendly Diamond Mines to make a good/safe product, the blockchain would let you make sure a specific diamond could uniquely be traced back to their original claim.  This doesn't mean the original claim is valid, nor does this *actually* tie into the authenticity of any single diamond (eg - they could sell/lose the real diamond off the blockchain and start calling some other stone the same thing).

Question: Are humans inherently built to form a two pyramid social hierarchy (less people at the top, less resources at the bottom), or is it just a consequence of historical events?
Answer: I think it's just human nature, once the most powerful people in a group don't know everyone in the group personally anymore, it becomes easier to fuck them over for their own benefit. Bands (very small groups) tend to be more collectivist, with perhaps a "big man" leading, but as the group gets larger into tribes which could be several  small groups tied together of hundreds of people and then chiefdoms which could be thousands of people across large areas, finally culminating in large modern states of millions, with massive inequality and a chosen few directing from the top. All this is my understanding of groups from the writings of Jared Diamond. We can see our own self-interest more easily when the guy were stealing from is just a number rather than your wife's brother.

Question: $19 trillion deficit in federal budget.
Answer: The federal deficit is the difference between the amount of money the government receives and and the amount it spends. In 2015, that is $583 billion dollars; and it is projected to be $474 billion dollars in 2016.

$19 trillion is much closer to the US National Debt, which is currently about $18.3 trillion dollars. The National Debt is the total of all the outstanding financial obligations of the federal government (how much they owe, in total, to people and other countries).

There have been various attempts to propose legislation and even constitutional amendments to force a balanced budget, but none have succeeded. Republicans and Democrats both agree that the debt needs to be capped or lessened -- with Republicans generally favoring a balanced budget with exceptions for military spending, and Democrats favoring setting limits on the national debt based on GDP (how much money the country brings in). It's a subtle difference.

The only time the US has had an budget surplus since Nixon was during Bill Clinton's term. The largest budget deficits in the nation's history were during George W. Bush's term.

Among economists, there's actually a debate on whether or not a deficit budget or large debt are bad, noting that the considerations of a state are different than a person or household. The state makes it's own currency and it's individuals operating within the state's domain use it - a much different situation.

Question: What happens if you are morbidly obese (1000 pounds) and starve yourself?
Answer: There was a study where a man who was morbidly obese took supplements and didn't eat for a very long time. He eventually got skinny, then died in his 40s. 

Moral being proper diet and exercise is the better route

Question: How does newly minted currency enter circulation?
Answer: They send them to banks and major companies, banks stop giving out old currency (if it's going out of circulation), over time, the new currency will be passed about so much that it's just part of the system

Question: What happens to Greece now that the bailout extension has been denied?
Answer: The party currently in power promised end the austerity measured imposed on it by the EU, and it promised it would no leave the euro.

It will have to break one of those promises.  Note that Greece has always had the option to honor the existing deal, and get additional bailout money.  They current gov't doesn't want to, because they feel that honoring validates it, and it breaks the main promise they used to get elected.

Question: How does a dam decrease water flow downstream if it does not take away any water?
Answer: The decrease of water flow isn't the problem.

The problem is that it's not a consistent flow anymore.[Here](_URL_0_) you can read about it.

Question: How do poor people *legally* immigrate to the United States?
Answer: [This image goes into some detail about it](_URL_0_)

Essentially if you don't have family here, and you're not skilled it's essentially impossible to become a citizen, barring something like being granted refugee status.

Question: Why must we have to wake up so early for school when it can easily be moved later in the day so we get more sleep?
Answer: Mostly buses.  But more importantly, there are a lot of "latchkey kids" whose parents work multiple jobs, or who have single parent families, or both.  If the parents leave work to pick up their kids from school, or stay home to babysit them, the family wouldn't have enough money to eat.  Even very stable families with enough income benefit from having someone available to care for the kids.

So older students are made available to care for their younger siblings.  They have to start school early enough that they can be done with their school day and either walk their siblings home or be waiting at home for them.

The issue with buses would be easy enough to deal with just be putting the high school students later than elementary school, letting the younger kids go first.  Unfortunately, that would hurt a lot of families that need the older kids out of school sooner.

Question: Why do more serious wounds, like surgery wounds have drainage durring the healing process?
Answer: It is a deep wound. This is not the same as most wounds we get which are surface wounds without a push, non penetrating wounds. Of course we can imagine many accidental wounds which are penetrating, or non accidental such as being stuck with a shiv multiple times. But the majority of accidental wounds are skin punctures.

There is a healing process. At first their is a very deep cut which disrupts all manner of things such as the normal drainage of fluid from an area. There is a normal drainage, very low pressure, which gets fluid away from tissue. The normal pattern is: arterial pressure, oxygenated blood coming from the heart, highest pressure, venous drainage system, blood returning to the heart, much lower pressure, lymphatic system, almost no pressure, interstitial fluid, this will drain to cells which will pump it back into the venous system, may drain from muscles and other tissues to cells which specialize in pumping.

This is all disrupted by the wound. So surgeons leave a drain in place. The living cells start to organize and repair. They remove dead cell structures and start to knit together. They form adhesions and scar tissue. But this is more than a few days after surgery. Before that the drain helps. Surgeons can actually have the equivalent of an IV, it is not an IV because the flow is not into a vein, into the wound or into the dressing. A sterile flow of fluid helps keep away wound infections.

Question: Why is the male crotch's color a little different from the rest of the body?
Answer: Male genitalia - and the pubic area in general - have a higher concentration of the pigment melanin than the rest of the body.  This accounts for a darker color.

Question: How is it No purchase necessary on those boxes you must open to win?
Answer: Generally, there is a mail-in or online method to enter the contest, sweepstakes, or giveaway.  Read the fine print on the box, and there is usually a brief description of how to enter without a purchase.  If it's not there, sometimes they put it inside the box (making it hard to enter without a purchase), or just have the information on their website or available via a telephone number.  Usually they make the rules for non-purchase entry very convoluted or difficult, with very specific instructions (such as hand-printing your name and address on a 3x5 index card with a first-class stamp, or sending them a Self-Addressed Stamped Envelope (which means you end up paying double postage).

Question: When and why did they switch from making planes covered with canvas, to making an all metal plane?
Answer: Around 1900, the Hall–Héroult process allowed for cheap production of aluminum and the development of Al-Cu alloys made all-metal airframes possible. The high-strength Duralumin alloys (Al-Cu), what we now call the 2000-series aluminum, were developed in 1909, and got improved until Alcoa came out with the 2024-T3 alloy (T3 being the heat treatment) in 1931, which we still use a lot of today.

Wood worked well for the lightweight, underpowered aircraft of the day with the box-girder frame construction, and wire-truss, strut-supported wing. Where metal really shined was in the monocoque fuselage and fully cantilevered wing.  In the older fabric skin planes, the fabric didn't take much of the load, so it added weight without adding strength.  In the monocoque planes, the skin provides most of the stiffness.  The cantilevered wing got rid of the cables and struts that provided strength to the old aircraft, but required a very strong main spar.  So, as planes got bigger engines, and carried more payload, aluminum provided a lighter, stronger solution.

Experimentation with all-metal aircraft started in World War I, with Junkers being one of the leading pioneers with their J1 and later F.13.  However, the control surfaces on many aircraft continued to be fabric covered right into World War II.

Question: how can BP pay a ~$20bn USD fine if their annual profit is only ~$4 bn USD?
Answer: The simple answer is that BP has $32 Billion in cash and short term investments on hand to pay off the $20 Billion it owes.

Also possible that BP will pay some fraction of the total amount it owes each quarter or each year for the next decade or two.

Question: Why does Soda cost so much less than water?
Answer: Does it?  I get water out of my tap for about 700 gallons for a dollar.

Bottled water is more expensive because it's been found that people are willing to pay that much for convenience, but water itself is quite cheap in the US at least.

Question: How much more light we will get if the moon is coated in mirror-like surfaces ?
Answer: About eight times as much.

The reflectivity of astronomical bodies is called albedo.  An albedo of 0 means the object reflects no light, and 1 means it reflects all light.

The moon's albedo is 0.12, meaning it reflects about one eighth of the light that hits it.

Question: why is it that sometimes in the city I live in I see pigeons with toes missing or just swollen knobs for feet quite frequently?
Answer: Pigeons in cities are in contact with a lot of dirt and bacteria from litter and such. As a result they often succumb to infections which rot their feet  _URL_0_
They can also get their feet tangled in things like fishing lines, cutting off the circulation and damaging their feet

Question: Do people of a darker skin complexion attract more sunlight and because of that are hotter outside in the sun?
Answer: Technically, yes. Melanin is the pigment that gives people a darker complexion, and therefore absorbs more heat. This might seem counterintuitive, but ultimately, the heat is not the damaging factor here, UV is. Melanin helps to dissipate UV radiation, thereby helping prevent skin cancers. Its production is stimulated by the UV radiation from the sun. So yeah, if you get darker you do get hotter, but you're protected better from the more dangerous UV radiation.

Question: Why doesn't Cypress export its oil to "keep their heads above water"
Answer: Cyrpus didn't seize money, the EU suggested they do that and they voted not to do it.

They don't have oil to export, at least not yet.

 >  Even if they dont have the technology or infrastructure, it seems that you could leverage a loan based on future oil sales.

This is exactly what's being proposed, but like in most cases if you're desperate to sell you're more likely to be getting a bad deal.  They are afraid of giving up long term future economic strength for what amounts to a handful of billion dollars today.

Question: If a human traveled at the speed of light, would they die instantly? If so how fast can a body like a human or animal travel before they get destroyed?
Answer: Nothing made of matter can travel at light speed. Full stop.

However, we could conceivably get close with no issues, so long as you didn't accelerate too quickly for the human body to survive.

Edit: or run into anything, but given that space is quite empty...

Question: how a penis can get erect, maintain proper circulation without increasing the blood pressure appreciably in the rest of the circulatory system?
Answer: The arteries leading into the penis dilate, resulting in an increased profusion of blood. The veins leading out of the penis are constricted by muscular action, restricting the ability of the blood to flow back out of the system into the body at large. This also explains in part how a priapism can be dangerous, as you can get oxygen-starved tissues.

Question: Why does the United States military have bases in other countries but other countries don't have bases in the United States? What are the odds of another country putting a base in the US?
Answer: A lot of countries host bases for other countries. There are a few advantages to this.

First - Base leases usually come with money. Most countries like to have money come in.

Second - Base leases usually come with favors or otherwise improve relationships between the countries. Want to influence a powerful country? Hosting one of their bases is a good way to do it.

Third - Bases provide defense. Maybe the local warlords don't think much of podunksylvania. But they might take you more seriously if you host some major foreign forces.

The US doesn't host much in the way of foreign forces because none of those things are terribly important to them. The US pretty much exclusively plays the role of patron rather than client. The US does host some small numbers of foreign forces, but only for the purposes of training. The US would probably not be happy hosting any of the countries with global aspirations, because they are exactly the countries they would be the most concerned about attacking the US.

Question: Why does commercial real estate stay vacant when they could just lower the price of rent?
Answer: Commercial real estate often deals with long-term leases - 5 years rather than the 6-12mo leases you see with residential.  There is often a significant amount of work that will be done, often by the land lord, customizing the space for the needs of a new client.

Also, in business, you seldom want to deal with the customer that insists on the cheapest price.  They're generally entitled pains in the ass that start expecting every last thing for free.  Not to mention that a business that's got a problem with a few hundred dollars per month in rent doesn't appear to be on sound footing - no property owner wants to have a tenant go out of business half way through a 5 year lease, leaving the property owner to clean up all the mess.

Question: Why isn't solar power the most used source for electricity?
Answer: Because it's the least dense form of energy available to us. You can only get about 150 watts per square meter out of sunlight. That's barely enough to run a lightbulb. Solar power is plentiful and free, but *very* paltry unless you want to spend billions to pave over whole states with PV arrays.

Question: Why does "End Now" rarely work?
Answer: "End now" is basically the same thing as trying to close the program by clicking the "X" in the top corner. It's the operating system sending a message to the program that says "hey, stop what you're doing please."

If the program's already frozen, that means it's not taking any commands. It's caught in some sort of issue where it doesn't know what to do. So, sending it a command saying "hey, close down" doesn't get followed because it's not responding correctly anyway.

When you go into Task Manager and say "end process," it's a command to the operating system. It basically says "take away whatever memory's being allocated to this program," and the program has no choice but to die.

It's like... if a kid is painting on the wall, and you tell him to stop, he may or may not. He's already ignoring what you're telling him to do, so it's not likely that he'll listen.

If you take away the paint, though, he doesn't really have a choice.

Question: Why does CISPA keep coming back?
Answer: It only takes a single Congressperson to introduce a bill. There's no reason to believe that CISPA is going to go anywhere, but there's no way to stop one of the 425 members of the House of Representatives from introducing it.

Question: Controls in the cockpit of a commercial flight
Answer: i suggest you read this pdf _URL_0_

and read this little guide

_URL_1_

but basically, you have the throttle, which controls thrust of engines, which accelerates your plane.

rudder pedals (feet) move the rudder, which makes your airplane go left or right in a horizontal plane.

then you have elevators, which are controlled by pulling the stick/control wheel or pushing it. this moves the plane up and down in the vertical plane.

you also have the ailerons, which are controlled by spinning the wheel CCW or CW. this rolls the airplane.

everything else can be stuff like, turning on the engines, turning on the hydraulics (which move the flight controls), turning on the electricity, moving the landing gear up and down, turning on lights, etc etc etc

and wait until there is an ELI10 or 15 to ask this question

Question: How do you reverse engineer the ingredients of a chemical formula?
Answer: Well, you can use a gas chromatograph to measure the different elements and ions in the mystery substance.  That's not totally enough information, so then you'd have to look at how those "lego blocks" might be arranged in a stable molecule.  Sometimes there are a couple of possibilities.  When you get it down to a list of possibilities you can define specific tests to measure A vs B and then C vs D and then A vs C to boil it down to an answer.

Question: Why are we adverse to rats?
Answer: Where there are people, there are rats. Where there is waste, there are more rats.


While rats are fairly clean animals, they are often seen searching through waste for either food, or a place to live. As a result people often associate them with filth. After the Plague (fleas on rats leading to the deaths of so many) the association between Rats, Death  &  Disease strengthened.


Here are two good books on the subject of rats, how we view them, and how we are key in their presence among us: [Rats](_URL_0_) by Robert Sullivan,  &  [Rats, Lice and History](_URL_1_) by Hans Zinsser.

Question: Can documentary and news personnel be held responsible for not disclosing information to the government about the illegal things they report on? I.E. Drugs Inc., Vice News.
Answer: No. There are journalistic protections thanks to the First Amendment to the Constitution. This gives a freedom of the press that protects them more than ordinary citizens when doing their job.

Question: Why does the giant ice cube in my cocktail melt at a nonuniform rate?
Answer: The ice probably has air in it, even if it is pockets smaller than a bubble and therefore hard to see.

Question: If espresso is essentially concentrated coffee why is it less acidic?
Answer: The resulting liquid has much less time to absorb any acidity from the grounds.  Since you are sending pressurized steam through the grounds instead of just letting hot water drip through them, it results in a less acidic brew

Question: If a bedroom has a 60 watt lightbulb and one of the walls is a full-length mirror, does the reflection become like a 2nd 60 watt bulb?
Answer: No the light of the lamp goes in all directions
The reflection on the mirror is just a fraction of the light from the original light source

Question: why do the progressive states keep middle/southern america around?
Answer: There does not exist any sort of way to "ditch" states.  We even fought a civil war, at great cost of life, to prevent it from happening.

The only way to make it possible for a state to leave the union would be to pass a constitutional amendment, which would require (among other things) 75% of the states to agree to it.  And trust me, that's just not going to happen.

Also:

 > Coastal states and cities drive the economy and support the barren expanses of the south and rural america

Those "barren" expanses provide almost all of the country's food.

Question: How does stainless steel remove smell of garlic off your hands?
Answer: The volatile  compounds that cause the smell in garlic, onions, etc. are sulfur-based. Most stainless steel in kitchens contains chromium. The chromium oxide attracts the sulfur molecule and draws it off of your skin

Question: ELI5: Why does Windows let me in instantly if I enter my password correctly, but take anywhere from ten seconds to a full minute to recognize when I type it incorrectly?
Answer: This is actually done on purpose.  The computer knows right away that the password is wrong, but it forces a waiting period before allowing you to try again to prevent someone from being able to sit at your computer and rapidy test dozens of different passwords to try to brute-force their way into your account.

Question: Why does the 5th amendment say that people can't be a witness against themselves in a court of law?
Answer: > Was there a history of asking defendants to testify against themselves?

Not so much "asking" as "torturing into confessing."  I'll try to dig up an old law review article about it, but that clause was largely created in response to what has been seen as coercive attempts to force people to testify against themselves.

Question: How can hardcore Christians be against both birth control AND abortion when preaching abstinence doesn't work?
Answer: Because how well the policy works doesn't matter to them. Abortion is a sin, contraception is a sin so the only available birth control option without being a sinner is abstinence. The fact that this policy causes a lot of pain and suffering, creates generations of perpetually poor people and that abstinence education doesn't work simply does not matter, because the purpose isn't effective policy, the purpose is to make people not sin.

Question: Why is radioactive waste such a massive problem? Why can't we just shoot it into space?
Answer: Because there is a lot of waste, space travel is expensive and if a rocket fails you get showered in radioactive waste.

Maybe once we have a space elevator installed that would be a viable option.

Question: What is so special about kobe beef, and why european or american herds can't produce it?
Answer: Just like there are different breeds of dogs, there are different breeds of cows.  Kobe beef comes from a Wagyu cow.  European or American farms can't produce it because Kobe beef comes from Kobe.  If it doesn't come from Kobe, it's not Kobe beef.  Same thing applies to Champagne.  Champagne is a region in France.  Sparkling wine from other regions is simply called "sparkling wine".  Also similar is Scotch.  If it's not from Scotland, it can't be called scotch.  Other places produce the exact same thing, but they call it whiskey or bourbon.

American and European farms DO produce beef from Wagyu cows.  But they can't call it Kobe beef because it's not from Kobe, so they call it Wagyu beef.

Wagyu cows are known for high amount of marbling on the meat.

Question: Can foreign corporations and individuals spend money in US elections (PACs/advertising)?
Answer: Strictly speaking, no, they're not allowed to. However, there's the potential for foreign money to be funneled through a shell corporation organized in the US to a nonprofit, which would mask the source of the money.

The courts have basically said that that's consistent with provisions which disallow non-citizens from other form forms of political participation - voting, holding office, etc.

Question: Why do credit card companies that offer those "5% cash back" deals that require users to activate a different category each quarter need to be so secretive/mysterious what the future categories are?
Answer: The idea of those promotions is to get you to put more money on your credit card - you're supposed to think "Ooh, I can save money on *x*, but I'd better buy it now!"

If they announce those promotions in advance, it encourages you to put off purchases instead, which is the opposite effect of what they want.

Question: Explain to me what reverse racism is, LI5
Answer: Racism is preferential treatment based on race, typically by a majority against a minority.

Reverse racism is preferential treatment based on race, by a majority  against *in favor* of a minority, to avoid the appearance of regular racism.

For example, let's say two people are up for a promition, a white guy with 10 years experience, top rated performance reviews and several industry certifications, and a black guy with 2 years of experience and average performance reviews, and missing key certifications.  The company is currently being sued for discrimination in an unrelated case, so they promote the black guy to give the appearance of being more inclusive.  In this case the white guy would be a victim of reverse discrimination, and may have grounds for legal action.

Question: How did we go about laying all of the underwater cables for the internet? Are they laying on the ocean floors or are they floating in the water?
Answer: Giant spools are laid doing using boats starting from each end point and meeting at some specified destination.

The cables are dug a few feet under the sand.

Here's a good Gif showing how it's done.

_URL_0_

Question: How does a “power nap” give you more energy than waking up slightly later?
Answer: I think a lot of people forgot the ELI5 here. I'll try my best to make this understandable:

When you go to sleep you go through different stages of sleep. The first ones clean out your brain a tad bit, making you have less of the hormones (emotion regulants) which makes you sleepy. The next stage makes you fall In a deeper sleep, where you get more of these sleep hormones. If you're awoken in this part, you'll likely fall asleep a couple of seconds after waking up, like if you fall down from your bed in the middle of the night and you go back up into your bed and forgets about it. If you sleep for an entire cycle, your brain will have gotten in and out of these cycles a couple of times, and It will have cleaned up all the trash which isn't cleaned away during day time. If you just take 30 minute naps, you will not be in the second state, and you will feel less tired. It's important to sleep through the entire sleep cycle, as your brain needs cleaning. You usually wake up naturally after a cycle, but you can wake up earlier and still feel good as new if you use sun light to make the sleep go faster (try sleeping in a totally dark room and then right next to a window, and not put an alarm)

So in short: power naps removes what makes you tired, but doesn't make you well rested!

Question: Why do some churches only believe in the King James Version of The Bible?
Answer: Many churches want to ignore the fact that you'll end up with errors when you translate things from ancient languages, because they want to claim that the Bible has no errors in it. The problem is that most modern English Bible translations will openly tell you about translation errors; there are little footnotes, where the editors note that people disagree about what the sentence really says. 

The King James Version is one of a very few modern English translations that *don't* do this. So if you want to tell a story of an error-free Bible, you pretty much have to use it.

Question: Why does a small dome light drain a huge car battery over night, yet a couple of AAAs can power a significantly more powerful, non-LED headlamp for days?
Answer: A car starter motor takes a lot of power.  It has to turn over the engine enough times to cycle every piston and try to start each spark plug firing properly.

You can leave a light on in your car for a day or two, but it'll drain the battery down too much to have enough power to turn the engine over.

Plus you have to remember that cars use old incandescent bulbs, and that's many times the power requirement of an LED.  Plus think how big an area a car light can illuminate.

Question: Why are the EU trying to remove memes? And how will they go about enforcing this?
Answer: EU is not trying to remove memes. EU is trying to implement a copyright law that will have a variety of effects, some you may find good and some you may find bad, and in addition, strictly speaking the proposal wouldn't allow to share memes.

I am not aware on the details of the proposal but basically, a "pro" point would be to prevent people from broadcasting content from somebody else as one's own, and to prevent people from illegally diffusing a full movie on YouTube (you may find that it's not a good point, but it's anyhow, that's the motive of the proposal). 

A bad point would be that free sharing of information could become more difficult. Automatic filters would be in charge on spotting the content targeted by this law and may misinterpret open source stuff (software, documents, etc) and put people releasing these open source stuff in trouble. Collaborative work could also face some issues. Memes could fall into this scope: if there's a meme with some frames from a TV series, it may be targeted.

People tend to speak more about memes because that's a funny angle to talk about the problem and that's likely to make people click the link and find out more, but actually the biggest issue is open source and collaborative contents, which is what people who are standing against this law proposal are trying to protect.

Question: How is it that we can drink a lot of liquid and still be dehydrated?
Answer: You have this hormone called anti diuretic hormone (ADH) that binds to a certain part of your nephrons in your kidneys. ADH enables your kidneys to reabsorb more water (a small but important percentage) as opposed to keeping it filtered and headed toward the bladder. Those beverages block ADH and that extra water is not absorbed thus you are peeing more and are more likely to be dehydrated.

Question: How do elevator systems determine which elevator to send when there are multiple that are equidistant away?
Answer: The scheduler will find all elevators that are idle or moving in the proper direction already. From there, it will score them for which one should go.

The score is going to be mostly distance based, but it could also be programmed to favour an elevator in motion. It may also factor in some sort of 'wear and tear' factor so that elevators tend to do the same amount of work.

Programmers wouldn't really handle a 'tie' scenario. Instead, the easiest way to do this is to just iterate through the list, holding an elevator and comparing it. If you find one that is lower score, you hold onto that one as you continue through the list. There's no specific handling for a tie, it just works because you're not checking for less than or equals, just less than.

Question: Why can hunters kill bucks freely but require a permit to shoot does?
Answer: Well, I'm not sure you can hunt anything without a permit, but let's put that aside. 

They don't release (as many) permits for female deer, as they are critical in breeding, and it's a 1 to 1 relationship. ie: for every 1 new dear, it needs it's own mom. A buck can mate with many does, so if there are fewer bucks the population won't suffer; the bucks that make it through hunting season are swimming in elk ass.  

It goes back to K vs R strategies for populations; but that's kind of above a 5 year old's head.. 



Edit: I swear this thread was empty when I posted. :/

Question: Following on from the blood type question, please ELI5 whether there's any truth to the theory that different blood types should eat different foods.
Answer: No. 

Food you ingest is broken down to components way before it comes into contact with your bloodstream. Even then, blood (the liquid part of it - blood plasma) only carries it to target cells and the antibodies on the red blood cells (that are responsible for blood types) have nothing to do with food components such as glucose molecules (sugars that your body uses to generate energy). Those molecules are in your blood just for the ride - to be caught by cells that need energy. This is the case with all those components. 

So as long as you eat a normal sized dish of balanced diet and aren't full vegan (even vegans can live off of 100% plant-substance for a few years before the diminishing supply of B12, iron and some other minerals/vitamins starts causing problems) you WILL be healthy regardless of your blood type.

Source: 1,3 years of med school (in Estonia)

Question: How does having a higher than normal blood-alcohol content level impact what kind of medical care a person gets when they have a serious injury or medical emergency?
Answer: Alcohol is  technically a poison, and has a lot of different effects depending on time of exposure. Immediate alcohol poisoning is one issue, long term alcohol abuse has others. 

Some immediate effects are:
- thinned blood: Your blood flows more easily and will clot slower. Doctors will therefore be more cautious with surgery

- increased liver and kidney demand: Your body tries to dilute and process alcohol (a poison) to negate its effects on the body. This is why you pee a lot and also why you should not take tylenol or simple painkillers with drinking. Tylenol also puts pressure on your liver and kidney to process. Too much pressure will cause serious damage to both organs. 

I'm sure there are other, especially relating to the heart, but those are probably the two most common.

Question: Why is it that most if not all torrents for major games are no longer on popular torrent websites after only a few months of release?
Answer: Honestly, your not looking hard enough.  A quick search on TPB turned up what your friend was looking for.  For brand new games they need to be cracked first.  That usually happens pretty quick.  But once a developer sees it up their going to find a way to bring it down.  Or set up a nice honey pot.  Not all developers are like this.  Not all developers even care their game is going to be pirated.  Most have accepted the fact that if someone wants it, their gonna get it.  Plus heavy DRM is hurtful to your actual customers in different ways.

Question: Why does hydrogen peroxide make your skin itchy?
Answer: Hydrogen peroxide is quite a reactive molecule, commonly used as a disinfectant in low concentrations for cuts as it kills bacteria. It is also a really good bleaching agent. Unfortunately, hydrogen peroxide will also react with skin, especially in higher concentrations and can cause unwanted reactions. 

When these unwanted reactions occur, your body will initiate a response to repair the damage, which has a side effect of itchiness at the site of exposure.

Question: Why people get happy when there is water on another planet, isn't it possible that aliens could live without water?
Answer: We can divide up all possible life into two categories: life that needs water, and life that does not need water.

We know the first group exists, because we, and all other life on earth, are part of that group.  The existence of the second group is pure speculation.  So while no one denies the possibility of the second group, it makes a whole lot of sense to focus on looking for the type that we know CAN exist.

Question: How does radiation work? What is it that kills you?
Answer: Think of it as a machine gun shooting through you. The bullets are so small they go through the cell membrane and rip your DNA apart.

Question: Why does a dehydrated brain cause a headache?
Answer: Your body is filled with veins and arteries, including your brain. These veins and arteries can get wider or thinner depending on what’s going on (cold/hot, too much/too little water). If you have WAY too little water, the veins and arteries shrink so much that your brain shrinks, and tugs on your skull. 

Source: google why dehydration headache, website medicalnewstoday

Question: why does store bought child cut turkey taste so different from thanksgiving turkey?
Answer: Deli meats are made by taking the meat and mashing it up, adding spices and squeezing it into a tube shape.  

So the meat texture is going to be quite a bit different then cutting it right off the bird.  And the flavour largely comes from the spices and cooking technique...not the meat itself.  

_URL_0_
_URL_1_

Question: Why is it that food has to be refrigerated to keep it from germs, but if our body catches a cold it gets germs?
Answer: When our bodies get cold, our immune systems get weaker. So cold viruses have a better chance of infecting us (especially when everyone around you is sick). As for food, bacteria tends to breed best between 40-140°F (5-60°C). So it's best to keep food below 40°F

Question: What is going on in Nevada primaries and why are people so mad?
Answer: Basing this on an article in the Washington Post _URL_0_

Nevada seems to commit some delegates in February and some in May. Hillary Clinton won more delegates in the February process, but Bernie Sanders gained a lot of support since February and actually ended up with more support than Hillary for the May process. Some yelling and apparent shady behavior later, and Hillary ended up with more delegate in the May process as well.

Some more detail: Bernie supporters thought the rules for committing the May delegates needed some tuning up to avoid gaming by the pro-Hillary bosses, with fights over rule changes going right up into the weekend. The end result is that the new Bernie rules didn't get passed. Videos show what appears to be some pretty shameful abuse of Robert's Rules of Order. Also a bunch of Bernie delegates didn't get to be pledged because of apparent procedural issues (that some Bernie supporters claim are shenanigans). 

The upshot is that Hillary gets something like 4 delegates that could have been Bernie delegates. Hillary appears to have gotten more votes nationally than Bernie, and her national delegate lead is in the ~250+ range, but still. If both of those are based on the kind of dirty dirt displayed here, how do we know that's really true?

Question: Why American healthcare is so obscenely expensive.
Answer: TLDR: Health care economics are weird and it doesn't work like just another business. However, the USA is ideologically committed to treating it like just another business, which causes a lot of problems.

Consider that when you go to the grocery store, if beef is too expensive, maybe you'll buy chicken. If you really want to be smart you can shop around for the best deals. Or get a freezer and buy your meat in bulk. And you can keep trying different strategies every week, it won't bankrupt you. 

Yay, the free market works! Customers, just acting in their own self-interest, will influence what the shops do, so they provide better goods.

Now consider, when you go to the hospital, if living is too expensive, maybe you'll buy... not-living? No, you won't, you'll take living. Shopping around is really hard because... you're sick. If you don't fix this soon, you won't even have an income. You can't buy in bulk or choose what kind of health care you're going to consume or when. You have skin cancer? Suddenly you're a *very interested* skin cancer treatment buyer. You don't have the expertise to evaluate treatment options, and you can't even learn from mistakes. It's not like you can try different cancer treatments every week and see what happens. Finally, many treatment interventions are super expensive, but you're going to get it anyway. If you have the foresight (and the spare cash every month) hopefully you purchased insurance. 

Health care customers are unusually disempowered, relative to the providers. Unless they band together, they aren't going to get a good deal. The free market still could have a role, but it's not so simple this time.

Even that wouldn't be so bad, but our societies have also agreed that we're not going to abandon people who are acutely ill and can't pay, so we end up covering the costs of people without foresight or spare income anyway, by raising our own costs! It's perverse, because then poor people avoid going to the doctor until their issues are acute (and super expensive to treat)!

Anyway, for all the above reasons, most developed countries developed national healthcare systems in the 20th century. Health care got really good in the 20th century, but it also got really expensive, so most nations reacted accordingly. (Most systems preserve the patient's role in directing their own treatment and selecting their own doctor, however.) Most health care providers resisted these changes but the public was for it, so they adapted.

Not the USA though! The USA has, due to a peculiar religion of anti-socialism, been unable to adopt these policies.

The USA is also exceptionally weird for two more reasons:

The USA has a tradition of employer-provided health insurance. So (a) that doesn't even cover everybody (b) people with pre-existing conditions are a burden to their employer, and before Obamacare that meant they just couldn't get a job. Want to get your insurance privately instead? You can try, but in the USA, individuals buying health insurance typically get screwed over when they try to collect; they don't have enough negotiating power.

And even if you're lucky enough to have insurance, that causes a new problem. Most insurance systems are set up so that they pay for whatever your health care provider recommends for your treatment. The patient's incentive to reduce costs goes away (indeed, they often have no idea what the costs even are). Now it's your health care provider trying to drive the costs up to infinity and your insurer trying to drive them to zero. A national healthcare system can (...sometimes) control those costs. But the USA is relying on pure capitalism, and furthermore has the most technological innovation. So it has a complex patchwork of billing systems, each trying to pass the costs off to someone else. Many doctors employ a professional just to figure out their billing. So the USA has, for instance, a lot of extra-expensive MRI machines, and uses them more often than most other countries, regardless of patient need. And then it employs an army of professionals to shunt costs to whoever can pay the most.

Obamacare is changing the game a bit, but the rest of the world still looks at the USA and shakes their head.

Question: How understanding some basic psychology and realizing the subconscious reasons behind your thoughts influences what you think
Answer: Probably depends on the person.

For some people, recognizing that you are embedded within physics and biology, that you have the psychological drives that you do because your ancestors were selected by evolution accordingly, can apparently be a real hit to the self-esteem. All your perceptions and thoughts are governed not by objective reality per se, but by survivability and reproductive success.

On the other hand — it's also the case that no matter what "weird" facts science comes up with (including psychology, human evolution, etc.), "it all adds up to normality" as Greg Egan puts it. The fact that you have a scientific, evolutionary explanation for why you love your partner, and what biochemical processes in your brain encode the fact of loving your partner, does not change the fact that you *do* love your partner, that you want to go on loving your partner, etc.

Question: Why doesn't our body circulate blood throughout our bodies when we get cold in the same way as when we are doing physical activity of some sort? Wouldn't it help keep our fingers and toes safe from frostbite and things like that?
Answer: The body reacts to keep the most blood and body heat in your core and vital organs. If you lose a finger to frostbite you still live. If a vital organ shuts down you don't.

Question: How did we receive images captured by The Voyager I?
Answer: Radio waves.  It sends it by a transmitter and then very big receivers pick it up.

Question: In regards to weight loss, why is it better to mix resistance training with cardio instead of only doing cardio?
Answer: In regards to weightloss gym is grams, what you eat is kilos.
If you want to loose weight, eat properly.
I do gym 6 times a week, and my proper weight loss didn't start until i get a proper healthy diet.

Chicken
Fish
Eggs
Meat
Vegestables.
Water
No or little salt.
Clean spices.
No oils or sauces.

I went down 37kgs so far after i stopped fooling myself into just doing weightlifting 1 hour 5 days a week, and started taking what i put in more serious.

Not so fond of the word diet anyways, but i couldnt think of the right english word.

Its not like a "eat until you loose enough weight then go back to McDonalds" diet, but "what you should eat for rest of life" diet.

And have some cheat meals once every few weeks to kickstart your metabolism again. Because it will adjust to what you put in.

And in regards to lifting weights will increase weightloss, yes to a certain degree.
You will burn more calories because you will gain more muscles.
Muscles needs "fuel" to run, the more you have, the more fuel is needed.
But also remember that muscles weigh more then fat, so the weight loss  itself will not be that massive unless you are 90% bodyfat and are more or less without any musclemass.

Question: Considering that the translation of a certain language does not exist yet, where and how do the translators get their knowledge without anything to base from?
Answer: There are a few ways.

There are rosetta stones, something written down that contains the same text in more than one language. Using the clues and indicators here they can deconstruct the way the language works and begin to translate.

If there is a person that speaks the language. For example if I met a French person, despite not speaking french, if they point at a cow and say 'Vache' I could infer that they mean cow. If they point at one cow and say 'un vache' I can infer that's one cow vs 'deux vaches'

Then there are people that are raised with multiple languages or learned them later, they are obviously an ideal source of information.

Languages tend not to stand alone, they can be grouped into 'families' like local accents they develop over time, so if you can grasp the root of them you can sometimes decipher bits and pieces and work from there.

A single one of each of these isn't probably going to get you an entire understanding but multiples of them together should.

Question: What would happen if an adult injected themselves with fetal blood?
Answer: What is this question even?

If the blood type were compatible, nothing would happen unless the adult needed a blood transfusion. In that case it would help.

If the blood type is incompatible, it will reject, and *bad things* happen.

Please don't harvest or try to harvest fetal or infant blood. They need it more than you do.

Question: What is the point of the hymen?
Answer: In females, much of the reproductive system is formed from structures called the Mullerian ducts.  Males have these ducts during development, but they eventually atrophy (waste away).  As a result, males don't have a great example of an equivalent structure.  In females, the Mullerian ducts are used to form the uterine tubes, uterus, cervix, and part of the vagina (i.e. lots of important reproductive parts).  The hymen is essentially just a leftover feature from the development of the Mullerian ducts.  In other words, it's just a common byproduct of the other stuff in the area being formed.  To the best of my knowledge, it doesn't serve much of a purpose.

Question: How blood is tested to identify the owner, given there are 7 billion potentials.
Answer: You don't really use it to identify the owner, unless you already have their DNA on file.  You would generally use it to compare one set of blood to another (ie, blood left at a crime scene compared to your suspects to find out whos blood it is)

Question: Can you domesticate bats? And if not, why?
Answer: Given enough time, you could probably domesticate most animals.  However, it might require centuries, or even longer.

There are many features that can make a species suitable for domestication, but the most important one is being *useful*.  Domestication takes a tremendous amount of effort, typically not the sort of effort you want to spend just to wind up with an exotic pet.

The only species to be domesticated in modern times is the Russian red fox.  The program started in the 1950's as a science experiment, used a particularly well-suited species, and today there are a few hundred animals running around with little value besides high maintenance pets.

Bats are not nearly as well suited as foxes, and probably have less potential to be useful.

Question: Is there a good reason why we need to wear socks with shoes?
Answer: Reduce friction. Absorb sweat. Keep insides of shoes cleaner, fresher. Adjust fit of loose shoes.

I've searched tha seven seas fer an answer. Yer not alone in askin', and kind strangers have explained:

1. [ELI5: why do we wear socks with closed shoes? ](_URL_2_) ^(_5 comments_)
1. [ELI5: Why does putting socks, which cover around 5% of my body, make me feel significantly warmer? ](_URL_1_) ^(_ > 100 comments_)
1. [Why do we wear socks? ](_URL_0_) ^(_8 comments_)

Question: why is a ceiling fan virtually silent, but not box fans/stand up fans?
Answer: It's speed. Box fans are smaller so you want them to go faster.

When I turn my ceiling fan on top speed, I hear it.

Question: Why is it that some primetime shows have 20 episodes per season, whereas others only have 10 episodes, or two 8-episode "half seasons"?
Answer: Because different shows have different scheduling needs and different paces at which they want to put the story out there.

It's usually the network's decision.

Question: How does weather forecasting work, and how do meteorologists predict the weather days and weeks in advance with such a high degree of accuracy?
Answer: It's called "modeling".

Using a network of [weather stations](_URL_0_)(click any region on the map, the black dots and town names are where weather stations are) around the world, meteorologists can analyze wind speed, direction, temperature, barometric pressure, humidity (at a minimum, other things like rainfall, lightning strikes, and cloud cover may also be recorded) to form an accurate picture of the current state of the weather, and how it's changing over time.

From there, it's just a matter of using a computer model to look at the current state, the past state, and predict how it will be advancing in the future. 

When they're breaking it down by the hour, they're looking at the model and reporting what is expected to happen. If a rain storm is moving at 10mph west, modeled to continue that path, and you're 50 miles away to the west, it's safe to assume that you'll be seeing rain in about 5 hours.

There are multiple "models" that compete. Some predict certain weather types with higher accuracy, some work in certain regions with higher accuracy, which is why you'll sometimes see reports showing the predictions of different models (especially for big events like blizzards and hurricanes).

TL;DR: Computer programs called models, using data collected from weather stations placed around the world, refined with years and years of data to be as accurate as possible.

Question: Why are there species-specific names for groups of animals? Murder, pack, gaggle, court, etc.
Answer: Because Victorian biologists decided there should be. And there's an awful lot of stuff we do that originated in the Victorian era. 

Edit: And no, more recently discovered species don't have group  names like that.

Question: How have we been able to artificially make some fruit seedless while others not (grapes vs. cherries, for instance)?
Answer: A farmer grows 10 apples trees. When the Apple stork arrives and drops off the baby apples, the farmer finds that one tree is growing apples without seeds. The farmer shoots the stork, and using its dead lifeless beak, grafts the right parts of the tree for use in planting more apple trees. These end up having less seeds/no seeds as well. The apple storks go out of business and turn to stripping and crack.

TL;DR you need a naturally occurring version without seeds first

Question: If listening to music at high volumes is bad for your ears, why are headphone / PC amplifiers such a big deal?
Answer: Headphone amplifiers are not merely just for increasing the volume. There are different specification for each headphones namely impedance (ohms) this value means it is harder to drive (or just harder to power). 

If you put a 600 ohm headphone on a soundcard/headphone amplifier that could only power a 300 ohm headphone, the volume that will come out of the headphone can be adequate but the volume knob will be up almost tonits maximum. Thus somewhat distorting the sound to increase volume.

 The sweet spot for volume to get the full quality of recording is at 50%.

Question: How can migratory birds cover such great distances, over such short periods of time? My friend said there are birds that can fly for 8 days straight. How do they do that with no sleep?
Answer: Birds and other animals for that matter don't sleep exactly the same as humans do. Birds for example sleep sitting all the time. A human sitting on a branch would fall down the second he started sleeping. Most animals sleep standing on all fours. Dolphins sleep while swimming. And migratory birds sleep while flying. Or sailing in most cases. Their brains do not shut down all the way so parts of it sleep while the rest is awake.

Question: why haven't consoles offered the option for multi-monitor gaming? Hardware limitations?
Answer: Less hardware limitations, more interest limitations.

Like any device, consoles are going to be developed to meet the needs / wishes of most of the target market. And most of the people playing consoles do not care for multi-monitor gaming. Half of the advantage of a console is that you can easily plug it into your tv (a device nearly everybody has anyway) and there you go, you are ready to game. Multi-monitor gaming already takes a slightly more complicated set-up, more TVs and so on, and most people just aren't interested in it.

And, as with any device you are making, you are going to aim for the least amount of costs when producing, and putting in extra hardware/software that most of your target market won't use will only make your device more expensive without really leading to more sales.

Question: Why do only mediocre bands participate in Eurovision?
Answer: Because it's not relevant. It's not a measure of quality. It's not a prize that's respected in the music industry. It's just television entertainment.

Question: Why do cats love small cramped spaces like boxes or under the bed?
Answer: They love to watch others while being in a safe place themselves. Sitting in a box is the perfect place to watch people without fearing an ambush yourself.

People often mention "cat chess", i.e. several cats that keep repositioning themselves so they can watch the others while being as hidden as possible themselves.

Question: How did people translate languages accurately when they didn't understand a word the other person was saying?
Answer: If you have a living person who speaks the other language, you can work together to figure out each other's language, especially if you know anything about linguistics. It might take some time, but you can work it out with another person.

If there's no living speaker then you need some kind of reference that let's you place words in context. You've probably heard of the Rosetta Stone. Before we discovered the Rosetta Stone we didn't know much about Demotic script or Egyptian Hieroglyphics. The Rosetta Stone is a tablet with the same document written in Greek, Demotic script, and Egyptian Hieroglyphics. We did know Greek, so we were able to figure out the other 2 thanks to that reference. That was a HUUUUUUGE development for linguistics and opened up a ton of understanding. So you don't always have a reference like the RS, but the point is you need some kind of reference. Often just archaeological artifacts.

edit: Demotic script, not Sanskrit. Also simplified some of the importance of the RS.

Question: why do our stomachs growl?
Answer: The "growling" (borborgymi) is due to your stomach muscles contracting in order to mix, crush, and propel digested food.  Usually you won't be able to hear the sound because it is masked by the food being digested.  However, a few hours after you eat, your digestive tract will contract in order to push any remaining food or bacteria down the digestive tract and say "Hey, I'm ready for more food" (hunger) .  This will repeat every few hours until you eat again.

Question: Race, Breed, Subspecies: what are the differences?
Answer: Races only have small physical differences that aren't really reflected in the genetic makeup. It's very possible for there to be more genetic variation between two Germans than between a German and a Kenyan, but the two Germans are still of the same race just because of their skin color.

Subspecies have more significant differences that are actually reflected in the genetic makeup, but they're still close enough that they can breed with the larger species as a whole, though typically their offspring aren't as fertile or viable as when they breed within their subspecies.  The line between subspecies and species is pretty blurry as there are animals that we consider separate species than can also breed like lions and tigers.

Breeds refer to differences that were selected artificially like dog, cats and horse breeds.

Question: When you're about to fall or spill something what is that feeling in your belly?
Answer: It does have to do with adrenaline!

When you become anxious or afraid, your body's stress hormones (including adrenaline) move blood from one place to another.  Your digestive system needs blood to make it work.  But if you're in danger, you don't need your digestive system to work as hard any more.  The blood is sent to your brain, your nerves, and your muscles so that you can act faster.

The warmth you feel comes from this movement of blood.

When you're done dealing with the stressful situation, the blood goes back to where it belongs.  Sometimes, people who stay stressed will lose weight because their body forgets to digest food and keeps blood flowing to other places for too long.

Question: How do they come up with the names for medicine?
Answer: a lot of the time they are shortened versions of their very long and complex chemical names. 

for ex, Ibuprofen from **isobutylphenylpropanoic acid** (i bu phen pro)

Question: Isn't threatening to revealembarrasing videos of people for money extortion? How are people not prosecuted for it?
Answer: It is indeed extortion and illegal. Many people end up going to jail for it. For example, [Autumn Jackson](_URL_0_) was sent to prison for trying to extort Bill Cosby.

Question: Why do flies come back to me after I try to swat them and miss? Doesn't it register into their fight or flight response?
Answer: They can't really comprehend that you're actively targeting them. The most they deal with outside of humans are animal tails swinging in their general direction. 


Flies don't understand hatred, they are beautiful, shit-eating beings like that.

Question: How did weed strains become increasingly more potent since the 70s?
Answer: Ever notice how friggin' gigantic some strawberries are? It's because of selective breeding. Take the biggest strawberry from a bunch of strawberries, pollinate it with the second-largest, and then plant its seeds, and hopefully the gene that caused it to be massive will be hereditary and be passed on to at least one of its offspring. Now take the biggest strawberry from that group, plant its seeds, and repeat until you have those fist-sized strawberries you can get from some grocery stores.

Weed is the same idea, just apply it to the THCA content in mj leaves. Plant, identify, replant, identify, replant, identify, and so on.

Question: Why does 'republican' mean something completely different in Europe compared to what it means in the US?
Answer: Because it is the name of the other major party of the US, so the political ideology and goals of that party greatly define what republican means in the US. In Europe on the other hand there are still a lot of monarchies (UK, Sweden, Netherlands, Denmark, Spain) so republican is more understood as the opposite of monarchist.

Question: How can things like plastic be clear(transparent)?
Answer: Funny you mention stretching because this actually a way you can make a polymer (a very long molecule with easily 1000000 or more atoms), which forms a plastic, not transparent.

Basically what happens is this: in an unclear plastic the light gets refracted inside the plastic. You can actually still see light come out at the other end, so light still passes through, it just comes out in all kinds of directions giving the property of it being unclear. The reason this is the case because of the alignment of the polymer molecules. When they are neatly crystallized they sort of form an internal mirror system which causes the light to scatter everywhere.

Now in a polymer where the molecules are aligned kind of randomly, for example in plastic bottles or bags, this internal mirror system doesn't happen. So light does not (or not as much) get refracted and scattered, but just passes through. This causes the plastic to be clear.

When you actually stretch some polymers (try this with a clear plastic bag, or if you can get it some parafilm) you can actually see the plastic change from clear to unclear. This happens (amongst other reasons) because when you stretch the plastic you are actually aligning the molecules of the polymer. This causes the internal mirror system I talked about earlier.

Hope this helps, I took a lot of shortcuts and didn't explain everything 100% correctly but this is the gist of it.

Question: When I was a kid, why was channel 3 the chosen AUX/input for most game systems or VHS players?
Answer: Most devices that used RF adapters (what you used to plug your NES into your TV's antenna/cable jack) actually had switches on them to select between channel 3 or 4. See: _URL_0_

Most media markets did not have something broadcasting on *both* channel 3 and channel 4 because the frequencies that carried those particular channels were more likely to interfere with each other over the air (In my area, we had broadcast affiliates on channels 2, 4, and 5, but nothing on channel 3). Channel 1 was off-limits to US broadcasters, but it wasn't an option for AUX devices either because all but the earliest TVs couldn't even tune to it (it basically didn't exist).

So, choosing Ch3 (or Ch4) for RF adapters was mainly a convenience, although, as you say, even if your area did have something on both 3 and 4, it would not limit your ability to use an AUX device on those channels when you wanted to.

Question: How do single-file games work?
Answer: It finds things inside it. .dat is a database file type, it's pretty much just a glorified folder.

Question: Why are chairs slightly incurved instead of the other way around ?
Answer: Some busses and trains in sweden actually have chairs that make you sit with a straight back, but i think It's cause people find those types of chairs more comfortable

Question: Who become in charge if something happens to PM?
Answer: People here are saying things about Parliament voting on the Prime Minister, which may be the case in other countries, but in the UK, it's a matter of demonstrating the "confidence" of the Commons – basically having enough votes to win any vote on your premiership, but without actually doing so in most cases, since any inter-election change of Prime Minister is likely to be in a Commons with the same composition, so the question of maintaining confidence is a fait accompli.

The person who actually goes to the Queen and gets asked to form a government is decided by the party in power.  For the Conservatives, there's an internal ballot of the MPs in the Commons to whittle down the candidates to two, who then get put to a party-wide popular vote.  In the case of Labour, there's an immediate (comparatively) party-wide popular vote.  Where there's a vacancy in government of the Prime Minister and not just an impending resignation (in which case the old PM would stay on until a successor emerged), a Labour cabinet would appoint an interim Leader/PM until the election could take place and I presume a Tory cabinet would do the same, but I couldn't find anything in its constitution about a vacancy in government.

There's an interesting constitutional point raised here.  In Britain, there's no such thing as a line of automatic succession to the premiership and there can't be.  A central constitutional rule is that the Queen has the unrestricted right to appoint the Prime Minister.  In practice, she has no choice at all, but the rule still exists, and an automatic succession would contradict that.  Indeed, there was no Deputy Prime Minister until World War II, when Clement Attlee was appointed to keep the country ticking over while Winston Churchill focused on the war, and even now it's an entirely informal appointment, with DPM not being a cabinet post and requiring another, concurrent appointment for a ministerial salary and a seat at cabinet.  One of the reasons for this is that before it was absolutely necessary for it to exist, the existence of a DPM could have been seen as infringing on the Queen's right to choose the PM, so it wasn't done.  So there you go; this has been a long post, I know, but hopefully interesting.

Question: Why is that when someone spots me benching even if they just touch the bar with their finger tips, it all of a sudden feels like they are helping me lift a bunch of the weight even though in reality they are maybe supporting a pound?
Answer: If you are able to hold the bar stationary, that means at that moment you're using exactly enough force to hold (but not lift) that amount of weight. Any more upward force on the bar at all and it will go up. It seems like a big difference because it's going from "not moving" to "moving".

Question: What is the connection between birds, reptiles, and dinosaurs?
Answer: Dinosaurs are a diverse clade of reptiles. Birds are descendants of dinosaurs, and technically by the phylogenetic system (which classifies an organism based upon its ancestry) thus are dinosaurs and also reptiles.

However, by that measure, humans are also reptiles (but not dinosaurs). As such, there are limits to the usefulness of applying such classifications too widely.

Question: why people while hugging in non-romantic situation are "tapping" each others backs with a palm?
Answer: It's just a friendly thing to do that stems from mothers burping their babies and then later on patting their kids on the back as a friendly good job or hello. Later on it just continues and people continue to do it. It's an old habit of society.
Edit: had a typo and fixed it

